
   
      
         
         Office of the President
         National Audubon Society
         700 Broadway
         New York, NY 10003-9562
         This morning, I closed my office door to interruptions, sat alone at my desk, and did something 
         I think will please you and everyone in your home.
         Dear Former Member,
         When we lose a member like you, it hurts.. .all of us.
         So this morning I sat down and thought about what it would take for you to give us a second chance. I thought about our 
         new, enhanced local efforts, our expanding scientific research and educational programs, our fresh new writing in AUDUBON magazine.
         Then I thought about an enticing way for you to regain your place among America’s most intelligent, concerned and caring citizens who proudly avow membership in the National Audubon Society.
         I’m inviting you back to full membership for just $17 - 51% off the regular rate.
         By accepting my personal invitation, you’ll provide yourself and every member of your family with a fulfilling sense of proprietorship, and a steady flow of priceless enjoyment.
         You’ll once again be enthralled by the striking photography and insightful environmental journalism that makes our exclusive magazine, AUDUBON, a treasure worth saving. It’s already won the prestigious National Magazine Award not once, but four times. __
         This award-winning style is evident in every issue with behind-the-headlines reporting, passionate coverage of the environment, exotic journeys to remote places you may never otherwise experience, and of course, in AUDUBON’s famous photography of nature’s most awe-inspiring creations.
         Bring beauty, mystery, adventure and the natural world back in your life.
         You may have missed learning the mysteries of the spectacled eider (a duck with an uncertain future) ... missed traveling with us to Asia where we found and followed the last wild tigers... missed marveling at the magic of mangroves.. missed discovering in Peru the newest bird known to science, the barbet.. .but you won’t miss a thing anymore.
         I’ve had a look at the magazine’s upcoming subjects and I can tell you the best is yet to come. From what I see, the magazine’s editorial staff and fresh new look and content may soon be granted a fifth National Magazine Award.
         There’s much more to membership than AUDUBON magazine!
         You’ll be protecting, preserving and promoting America’s wetlands, endangered species, ancient forests, our National Wildlife Refuges, the Everglades and the Platte River, our Living Oceans Program and much more.
         You’ll be supporting sanctuaries, field research, environmental education and legislation and many other vital efforts critical to the protection of wildlife and their habitats. You’ll also be educating youngsters in 15,000 schools across America — most likely some in your own school district.
         By accepting my special invitation to join again, you’ll receive special invitations to our sanctuaries and Ecology Camps — and FREE ADMISSION to our Nature Centers. There, you’ll have the rewarding opportunity to study with Audubon experts and take part in workshops of special interest to you.
         What’s more, you’ll receive FREE MEMBERSHIP in your local chapter -there are more than 500 Audubon chapters nationwide — with access to field trips and activities everyone in your family will enjoy.
         There’s still more. Special travel opportunities, and special (FREE!) membership in the Audubon Activist Network will also be yours.
         Incredibly, all this is possible for just 517.
         Think of all the ways everyone in your household will benefit from your membership in Audubon. And then, please, take advantage of this opportunity to regain full membership for 51% less than the regular rate.
         We simply can’t afford to lose you. May we become partners once again? I’ll be waiting for your reply.
         Sincerely,
         John Flicker
         P.S. On behalf of everyone here at the National Audubon Society, we look forward to saying, “Welcome back!” All of us are excited about sending you your magazine and membership materials. In advance, please accept my personal “Thank you!”
         P.P.S.	As an added gesture of appreciation, I’ll also send you our binoculars -- FREE -- with your permanent membership.
         
      
   
