




Paradoxical Behavior Unaccounted For
Stovohobo
2008-11-09T20:48:18Z
ID: 45750
Prequels: 45745

Sequels: 45759


“It was...nothing,” I said, confused. Then I shut up, remembering the Miranda Rights I heard on the holovisions from time to time: anything you say can and will be used against you. But I did have an idea. “Forty...forty forty twenty-two? Forty minus nothing equals twenty-two, no, forty-nine.”
The android furrowed its brows, an accidental computer trait that it had picked up from human behavior. It opened its mouth, but nothing came out. Then, “Stage programming tests 345.9.35 proven incorrect: humans insusceptible to pattern-based programming.”
Another voice. “Searching status options...arrival: impossible.”
The android looked confused again. “Theory 345.6: human activity unpredictable/paradoxical?”
“Searching status options...arrival: impossible.”
The robot looked confused again, and waddled mechanically out of the room. The section of wall closed behind it.
I understood little of what the computers said, but I had a feeling I won.


Remembering Paige's Ending (part 2)
Dreamer
2008-11-09T20:48:30Z
ID: 45751
Prequels: 45749

Sequels: none


I don’t know what the future holds for us, but I know that it won’t be easy. After growing up the way we did, how could I ever expect it to be? But we survived. More than that, we lived. Now, my greatest fear is not of the future, but my own past. I don’t think I ever fully appreciated what Drew went through until I began the journey for myself. But that’s another story. All I know now is how I work through everything, day to day. What tomorrow will bring, will come. And I will push on. And I will not be alone.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Last Class
.:band baby:.
2008-11-09T21:14:22Z
ID: 45752
Prequels: 45653

Sequels: 45753


I have my last hour with Edwin. All he can talk about, for a change, is how excited he is to be actually taking me on a date. I can't believe how excited he is. It is like he has suddenly let go of his past love, or at least decided to try and move on.
After class, I tell Edwin I'll catch him at home because I'm staying after. He says okay and then kisses my cheek quickly. I felt nothing, as if he were a grandma who has kissed my cheek a thousand times.
Seconds after Edwin was out of sight, Chris walks up. He smiles that million dollar smile of his and I feel my insides melt. Immediately warning bells go off in my head. It is not good that Edwin does nothing for me with a kiss and Chris does everything with just a smile.
"Ready to go?"? He asks. I can't remember how to talk so I just kind of stare at him. "Yo, earth to Hazel."?
"Oh, uh. Yeah, let me just stop at my locker."? I say, blushing in embarrassment.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Trip to the Lake
.:band baby:.
2008-11-09T21:15:37Z
ID: 45753
Prequels: 45752

Sequels: 45754


Chris laughs and makes a sweeping gesture, "After you, milady."?
I laugh and start walking towards my locker. Chris falls into step besides me. When we reach my locker, I put my books away and turn towards Chris. "Ready!"? I say.
"Let's go then."? Chris says. I follow him out the doors and to his car. He opens my door for me and helps me inside.
Crush came on half way to the lake and I immediately reached and turned it up. I start singing the chorus and then notice Chris looking at me.
"What?"? I laugh.
"Is it bad that I think you're cute when you sing?"? He says sheepishly and shrugs.
"It may be. You're messing with a very complicated girl, remember? Technically, I'm a married woman."? I say laughing.
"Not yet you aren't."? Chris says as we pull up to the lake. We get out and he takes my hand. "I have a surprise for you."?


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Swing
.:band baby:.
2008-11-09T21:16:51Z
ID: 45754
Prequels: 45753

Sequels: 45785


"Really?"? I ask. "What?"?
He starts walking to a big oak, "I'll show you."?
"Ok."? I say. When we get to the oak I laugh. "A swing?"?
"I put it up just for you"¦ Last night after I took you home."? Chris says. "Wanna get on?"?
"Sure."? I laugh as I sit down on the swing. Chris walks behind me and gently begins to push.


incapable.
band geek
2008-11-09T21:36:10Z
ID: 45755
Prequels: 45741

Sequels: 45756


I hated when people thought I was incapable of so much more than I actually was. I was different than ordinary blind people, if there was such a thing as ‘ordinary blind people’. People knew what I could do, yet they thought I wasn’t able to do little things, like walking down a hallway.
I wasn’t mad at Theo; he had no idea. He hadn’t known me before today.
I still had a feeling I’d known him longer than this, like I’d known him my whole life.
Like a brother, almost.
I went into the room and sat down. Other people came in too, sitting in the other rows of seats. Then, a doctor pushed a small table in front of each of us.
It wasn’t very much. There were some noodles, vegetables, and a bottle of water. Once I was finished, I headed back into my room.
I wanted to stay away from Karon as much as possible. Having no idea of what he planned to do to me actually might’ve been better than knowing. I hated hospitals. All I could think of them doing for me was bringing me more pain.


same.
band geek
2008-11-09T21:39:15Z
ID: 45756
Prequels: 45755

Sequels: 45760


People tried to convince me to go through with all of the things doctors kept trying to fix by telling me "I can't imagine not being able to see. It must be horrifying! To not even see colors.."?
The thing was, I didn't feel as if I was missing out on anything at all. Colors were just an abstract idea; there's really no way to imagine seeing anything but the colors you can already see, now is there? It's really the same thing for me.
Someone came into my room- no, two people. "Hello?"? I asked.
"Hi,"? they both said in unison.
Their voices were both exactly the same, and I assumed they were girls, probably only eight or nine. They stepped up closer to my bed.
"Anything you want?"? I asked.
"We're just bored,"? one of them replied. "What's your name?"?
"Regan. What about yours? And your friends?"?
"I'm Julia,"? one of them said, followed by, "I'm Lucy."?


Eros and Psyche 14 - the Underworld
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T21:43:00Z
ID: 45757
Prequels: 45582

Sequels: 45761


Psyche’s hands trembled as she descended into the icy cold depths of Hades’s realm. She couldn’t see the spirits undoubtably floating around her, but she knew they were there. Finally she came to the Styx itself. Its awful waters were cluttered with the waste of humans – broken pottery, discarded farming tools, ruined jewelry. And there, leaning heavily on his pole, was Charon, the boatman. She hesitantly handed him the coin, and his dark, empty eyes invited her on the barge. When the barge landed on the opposite bank of the terrible Styx, Psyche clutched the cake she would need for the next horror. A few yards in front of her, growling and snarling, Cerberus sat with trails of drool hanging from his teeth. She tossed him the cake, picked up her skirts, and sped past his huge figure. Persephone herself was kind enough, for the wife of the King of the Dead. She thanked Psyche for coming down, filled a box with cosmetics for Aphrodite, and sent Psyche on her way. Too easy, Psyche thought.


sequel
strider
2008-11-09T21:46:31Z
ID: 45758
Prequels: 45383

Sequels: 45763


The bell rang and our snooty teacher walked in announcing himself. I spent most of the long class either glancing at the clock or glancing at Anna taking notes intently. I noted her eyes, her smile. I’ve never seen one like it. Finally the bell to rang.“So, my next class is,” I looked at my schedule “Algebra with Mrs. Coudrote.” “Ah, the Cood” She said with a sly tone. I figured it was a nickname for the teacher. “Down this hall. Follow me.” I followed. Her walk was hypnotizing. I had to catch myself from standing and staring. I caught up to her side. As we turned the corner, I tried to think of something to say to continue a conversation. “You do know your way around.” I said, regretting words the second they left my mouth. She laughed. “Yah, like I have been here awhile.” “I’ll bet,” I said. Anna began explaining the history of the school and soon I got lost within a few sentences but I didn’t care. I loved listen to her talk. Her voice was soft and quick. I knew I was stuck on her already.


Vocal Impulses
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-09T21:46:33Z
ID: 45759
Prequels: 45750

Sequels: 45873


Well, I was alone again. I couldn’t believe my little gimmick actually worked. I’d won that battle.
But would I win the war?
That remained to be seen.
I began bobbing to some incoherant song that had lodged itself into my head. It was welcome company, really. It took shape; it was a favorite of mine: La Paga.
Then the foot tapping started; the finger snapping; the arm swinging; the actual singing along.
In short: total rocking out.
I got through most of the song, full-out dancing, when the man stormed through the sliding door again. I froze in mid-dance step.
“What are you doing?!” he asked, more confused than ever.
“Rocking...out?” I answered slowly, not sure what else to call it.
The android folded his arms, utterly stumped. “One minute, you jumble numbers incoherently, but the next you send vocal impulses in a coherent pattern, in a manner you call ‘rocking out’?” He shook his head. “And yet you still function normally?”
I shrugged. “Bud, you got a heck of a lot more to learn about humans.”


questions.
band geek
2008-11-09T21:46:49Z
ID: 45760
Prequels: 45756

Sequels: 45768


"Why are you both here?"?
"They didn't say. They just picked us up and we got on the spaceship. They said we were going to Earth! At least, that's what Mister Karon said."?
Both girls had a weird habit of finishing each other's sentences where the other left off. Probably twins.
"Why are you here?"? one asked.
"Well, I have an idea. It's not a big deal."?
"Is it your eyes?"?
"Part of it, yeah."?
These girls were much too curious about this. I didn't want to scare them with my own thoughts about what Karon could be planning.
"Are you blind?"?
"Yeah"¦ I am."? So many questions.
I knew Theo had asked even more than this. When I'd been talking to him, though, I hadn't really noticed it. He'd wanted to know the things he asked about to understand more about me. The girls just asked out of curiosity.
I wasn't angry or annoyed; just a small realization I’d had.
Another person came inside. "Girls, why don't you go back to your rooms for a little while?"?
It was Dr. Karon.


Eros and Psyche 15 - the Reunion
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T21:50:05Z
ID: 45761
Prequels: 45757

Sequels: 45762


As soon as Psyche had repeated the dreary process and stepped out of the Underworld, she breathed in the clean air. A musty smell clung to her lungs. She began to walk, slowly, back to Aphrodite’s “house,” when arrogance started to take over her. Very few living people had come out of the Underworld. Surely Aphrodite would let her see her husband again, and when that happened, she had to be presentable. She was sure her hair and face were a mess. Psyche’s eyes fell on the box of cosmetics. A little touch here and there couldn’t hurt. She carefully cracked the box open – and collapsed. Eros’s voice was getting hoarse when he saw her lying on the ground, her form crumpled. He swept over to her body and picked her up in his arms. “Foolish little Psyche,” he murmured as he wiped the drug off her eyelids. Admiring her face once more, Eros opened his wingspan and flew off to Zeus’s palace.


Eros and Psyche 16 - the Gift
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T21:58:26Z
ID: 45762
Prequels: 45761

Sequels: 45765
45766


Wrinkles formed in Zeus’s hearty face as he agreed to Eros’s proposal. “Your mother won’t like it,” he laughed, “but she certainly can’t say no to this!” Eros pushed a very shaky Psyche up to Zeus, who promptly laid his hands on her shoulders. “I, King of the Gods, grant you, Psyche the mortal, the greatest gift a god can give a mortal. Go now knowing you will live for eternity.” Immediatley Psyche’s form began to shimmer, and Eros ran up to her, enfolding her in his arms and wings. Right in the nick of time, Aphrodite burst into the room. “Get off her, my son!” she shrieked. “You have no right touching a mortal!” Eros looked up at his enraged mother. “But that is where you are wrong. She is not mortal – she is immortal, she is my wife, and we will get married the proper way.” Aphrodite turned incredulously to Zeus for consolation, but he nodded his head. “It is true,” he replied. “You cannot argue to the marraige of a god to a goddess.” Defeated, Aphrodite sat down, and the happy lovers celebrated.


Pt 4: Babbling
Freedom
2008-11-09T22:03:00Z
ID: 45763
Prequels: 45758

Sequels: 45935


He was staring at me so intently, I smiled again nervously. And I'm not supposed to be the nervous one. I started babbling about the school and blahblahblah but he continued to stare with the cute little glimmer in his eyes. How sweet!
It's a bit obvious that he likes me now but that's okay. It'll only not be okay when Emmett comes back into the picture. I pushed the thoughts of my football player away and focused on the words coming out of my mouth.
Too bad, we reached the Algebra classroom quickly. He opened the door for me and I strolled up to the teacher. "Ah, Anna. Hello. What a pleasure."? The Cood said to me with a fake smile.
I motioned to Cameron and said, "You've got a new student. Now if you'll excuse me, I must get to class."? I told her in my sweetest voice and her smile got wider"”like she was talking to a fucking angel or something. Whatever. I winked at Cameron before heading to my Geometry class, a level up. Naw, I shouldn't tell him. He might feel stupid. Stupid and cute though.


Something I wish I could Tell a Certain Someone
penguincaptain18
2008-11-09T22:07:45Z
ID: 45764
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Of course I want to make out with you. Why do you even bother asking? Of course all I want to do is feel your arms wrapped around me. But it just can’t happen today. Not today, maybe not tomorrow, maybe not ever.
Why you ask? Maybe because I value your life. Maybe because I don’t want to be the reason why my father has to tear you to shreds. That could be it. The bigger question is why do you keep asking why? You know the answer. It doesn’t change.
No I’m not going with your crazy plan. Its crazy and going to get us both killed. Plus only a monkey would fall for “President-elect Obama has ordered me to stay home today so you’re just going to have to leave me home alone. No I’m not sneaking a guy over. That’s crazy.” You must really think my parents are stupid. Stupid, crazy, or maybe both.
Please don’t make this harder than what it is. Please don’t make me feel any guiltier about not being able to be with you. Its not fair. Especially since your the one who doesn’t have time to make it official.


Eros and Psyche - the End
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T22:08:04Z
ID: 45765
Prequels: 45762

Sequels: none


In one of the happiest stories in Greek mythology, Love (Eros) and Soul (Psyche) were finally united. The story of Eros and Psyche is said to be the first fairy tell ever written, and most definetly the sweetest. Nothing can seperate the two, not even the tempermental, envious goddess of Love.
Some say the reason Eros is not in many myths was because Psyche kept him home all the time – he went from being mischevious and abusing of his power to a well-loved man (god?) with a wife. Others say Psyche never was granted immortality, and died in Eros’s arms, causing him immense and lasting sadness, but what kind of a story is that?


Eros and Psyche - the End
canadianwriter
2008-11-09T22:08:38Z
ID: 45766
Prequels: 45762

Sequels: none


In one of the happiest stories in Greek mythology, Love (Eros) and Soul (Psyche) were finally united. The story of Eros and Psyche is said to be the first fairy tell ever written, and most definetly the sweetest. Nothing can seperate the two, not even the tempermental, envious goddess of Love.
Some say the reason Eros is not in many myths was because Psyche kept him home all the time – he went from being mischevious and abusing of his power to a well-loved man (god?) with a wife. Others say Psyche never was granted immortality, and died in Eros’s arms, causing him immense and lasting sadness, but what kind of a story is that?


--confusing--
band geek
2008-11-09T22:27:52Z
ID: 45767
Prequels: 45587

Sequels: 45775


He was leading me in a different direction, I had no idea where.
The woman was there too, running next to us.
It was all in a daze.
It was as if I couldn’t focus, couldn’t seem to actually pay attention to my surroundings. I saw things, but couldn’t react. I tripped over a log Grant and the woman had easily jumped over. I was scratched by thornbushes they’d dodged.
I saw the dogs, but didn’t say anything.
They were running alongside us, trying to attack. I wanted to say something, was urging to scream out with all my will, but for some reason, nothing came out.
This really was like a movie, just like me watching another version of everything around me, while the real me was in a parallel episode, just watching the other one.
It was a little weird. The ‘me’ in both scenes was screaming at the other ‘me’ to say something, to warn them.
Confusing.
We ran out into the road after Grant noticed them too. In plain sight.
We weren’t hidden anymore.


angry.
band geek
2008-11-09T22:31:50Z
ID: 45768
Prequels: 45760

Sequels: 45769


"Okay,” they giggled, and ran down the hallway.
He shut the door and sat down in a chair next to my bed. "Hello Regan. You seem to be adjusting well to your room."?
"Why those girls? Why Theo?"? I asked quickly.
"Those two have a very"¦ interesting ability. They can be pretty useful once they learn to control it."?
"Useful? What do you mean, useful?"?
"Could mean many things, could mean nothing. Who knows? Anyway, I came in here to talk about-"
"Answer my question!"? I yelled angrily.
"Not now. It's too confusing to get into now."?
I hated how, no matter how rude and angry I could be, Karon would always stay so calm. It only seemed to make me angrier.
"What I wanted to explain,"? he continued, "is the issue of your eyes. I've already told you we have the ability to fix it. Do you want to know about the procedures?"?
"No,"? I said immediately.
"No? Why not?"? he asked, concerned.
"Just NO. I turned on my side so I wouldn't have to face him anymore.


run.
band geek
2008-11-09T22:35:07Z
ID: 45769
Prequels: 45768

Sequels: 45827


"Regan, I need to tell you-"
"Please, just leave,"? I whimpered.
"Regan-"
"GO!"? I shouted, as the bed beneath me shook.
My thoughts were racing. Doctor Karon didn't know when enough was enough. "Regan, calm down."?
"I won't"¦ I can't,"? I muttered, clenching my teeth.
Why was this making me so angry? I was picturing something horrible, something on its way to kill Karon.
"Run, can't you  HEAR  me?"?
"You won't do it,"? he said affectionately. "You can't do it."?
My mind took this as a challenge, something I had to prove wrong. "Get out of here."? My voice took on the monotonous tone it always does when I'm about to use my ability.
"Regan-" he put his hand on my shoulder. "Calm down."?
Why did he act so understanding? He didn't know  ANYTHING , yet he was still trying to "˜comfort' me. I just wanted to be left alone!
My started breathing faster, and my ears throbbed with pain. This only happened to me once before, when I just couldn't control anything.


Vandals' Vamps
Tangerine
2008-11-09T22:41:36Z
ID: 45770
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Through the fog created by tubes of addictive hell where the linger glares of “people-who-shouldn’t-care.” Why were they staring at me? Though at first glance they might  SEEM  to be my contemporaries who where going to school while I was not, but who was worst; the girl minding her own business at the edge of the woods, or the 16 year olds smoking outside the school.


We're Crazy (For Each Other)
RainDance
2008-11-09T22:48:36Z
ID: 45771
Prequels: 45640

Sequels: 45905


The bowl of popcorn was settled between them, rather awkwardly at best. Both Chloe and Alex decided to fully immerse themselves in the film on the screen to try and deny themselves the truth in what had happened just minutes ago.
For 3/4 of an hour they were sucessful. Each one pretended that the other was only a figment of their imagination. Until the moment they both reached into the bowl and found not only popcorn kernels but the cool touch of the other’s skin. Alex’s fingers lingered in the bowl while Chloe quickly withdrew her hand. From that point on, neither friend could focus on the movie. As though suddenly inspired, Alex grabbed the bowl and placed it on the table with a sheepish grin.
“That was bothering me,” he told Chloe honestly. Chloe attempted to muffle a laugh.
“What?” Alex asked worriedly, “What’s funny?”
“It was bothering me, too!” she burst.
Alex chortled nervously. Chloe snorted. Before they realized it, they were holding each other, laughing until tears escaped their eyes.


Destination Absolution [Tag Cloud Challenge]
THX 0477
2008-11-09T23:19:21Z
ID: 45772
Prequels: 45746

Sequels: none


“Tickets please.”
“Wha-huh, heh?” mumbled Jake, coming rudely to his senses.
“Tickets please,” repeated the sharply dressed man in the little blue cap.
“Huh? Who the...”
“I’m the ticket agent, of course. Tickets please.” He held out his hand. In a blur a lovely woman with startlingly dark hair took a seat across from Jake.
“Allow me,” she said sweetly, handing two tickets to the agent, “Destination Absolution.”
As the agent left Jake ventured, “Don’t I know you?” He tried framing her face in a little square with his hands.
“I’m not Alfred Hitchcock, if that’s what you’re thinking,” she teased with a wry smile.
“No, you’re...hey, did you say Absolution? How the crap did I get on a train? And, and...”
“So many questions, how can I keep up?” Her eyebrow raised in mocking salute.
“Aha! You’re Ana Christina, and...but you live in Florida, and I live in Wisconsin, but...and the train...which means...”
“That you need to lay off the alcohol to avoid these weird dreams, mijo.”


The Birth of a Killer [Serial Killer Challenge]
Wyatt Aapr
2008-11-10T00:21:38Z
ID: 45773
Prequels: 45717

Sequels: none


The blood.
The blood had always been the problem, or rather the washing away the blood. Now, after finding the cave, there were no problems. Now it was time to kill a human.
My first choice was a nine year old girl; Alisha was her name. She was in my ninth grade class. She had red hair, freckles and no close friends. I followed her home for two weeks, just getting to know the route and her neighborhood.
I picked the ideal spot, a full block under construction. And during the winter months the workmen were gone when school let out.
She was easy to get. All I did was call out her name and she walked over to me. One quick glance around and I struck her with a piece of iron pipe. I dragged her over to a ditch, and covered her with a piece of scrap plywood.
After dark I carried her to the cave. The cave was the home of hundreds of rats. I laid her out on the ground, stripped her and cut open both of her legs: that was to draw the rats. Three days later I went back and there was nothing left.


ombra di bellezza
cracks in a sidewalk
2008-11-10T03:24:02Z
ID: 45774
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Play. Louis Armstrong Fast forward. Nat King Cole. Pause. Both came swirling out of her stereo to the side of her bathtub. Both sent her imagination reaching far beyond the four walls containing her in her bathroom. Play. Billie Holiday. Physically, she was in her bathroom. Imaginatively speaking, she was in Italy, floating down a river,next to a shore with white lights strung through trees, sparkling as bright as the stars above. Stop. On the shore were Aretha Franklin and Bud Powell along with many others playing a private show for her. PlaySam CookeHer boat floated lazily down the river with wind kissing her cheeks and the lapping at the boat, pushing it that much farther down and into her imagination all the way back into her bathroom where the four walls enclosed and entrap her memory once again. StopThe water drew cold chills up her spine and her skin shriveled as if trying to wring water out of itself. She let up the drain and pulled a warm towel close to her shivering body. Unplug


==where?==
band geek
2008-11-10T10:38:37Z
ID: 45775
Prequels: 45767

Sequels: 45944


The helicopters were coming our way, I heard them coming nearer.
“Come on, over here,” the woman screamed, sliding down the face of the cliff.
I followed, and without thinking, jumped down as well.
Landing with a loud thump onto a dusty road leading into even more woods, I followed the woman, who wasn’t taking the path.
“Where are you going?” I asked once I caught up with her.
“There’s a river in this direction. There’s dogs. Think about it.”
The dogs obviously did catch a scent, and it was true. The only way to lose them would be by either crossing the river, or just swimming downstream.
How did she know this landscape? How had she known there was a river there?
I didn’t ask her; soon I heard the soft splashing sounds of the water, and jumped...
I looked behind me, all around me. The water was only five, six feet right here. We could easily hide, if the helicopters came near. It would be easier now. We could all get out of here-
Wait...
Where was Audrey?!


Below the Burning Sky
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T10:53:49Z
ID: 45776
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Arenn stood high on the cliff, looking down at the smoldering ruins, the smoke blowing into the westward setting sun. The Tall King was deposed, and after centuries of slavery, our people were finally freed, but at what cost? The multitudes, of which I was one, stood behind our rebellious leader as she stood surveying the destruction she had caused with what I feared was contentment. I wanted no more war, but I was afraid that more may follow. As if reading my thoughts, Arenn turned and looked deep into my eyes.“You, child,” she said, beckoning to me. My heart pounding, I slowly walked towards her. Odd, but I had never thought of our leader as beautiful before, only sly. Now she seemed to have the beauty of a raven silently flying overhead, an ebony silhouette against the fire-red sky. “Child,” she said again, “Why do you frown so? Are you not happy to be released after so many long years of imprisonment?” “Of course,” I said, but even as I said so my frown grew deeper. I saw a fire in her black eyes.


The Lights go on at Night
Tad Winslow
2008-11-10T11:45:08Z
ID: 45777
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45781


“Well? Have you ever talked to our neighbors Abbey? Have you ever seen them outside of their home? I sure haven’t. It’s freaking me the fuck out. Can’t you see how strange that is? The lights go on at night, a few shadows move by the windows, and that’s all we know of them.”
“Ok, but Seth, this is our opportunity to finally meet them. They decorated their house with orange lights for Halloween, their porch lights are on, they’re reaching out for the first time, don’t spoil it with your ignorant assumptions. I’m taking our boy over there for trick or treat and you’re going to hand out candy. End of discussion.”
“Look. Abbey. Their cars haven’t moved in four months! Do these weirdos have jobs? Lives? A god-damn grocery list!? If you’re going then I’m coming too.”
Abbey, depleted from the argument, compromises. “Fine, put a bowl of candy on the steps, lock up, and let’s go.” Her boy sheepishly enters the room in his pumpkin suit and attaches to her leg. “Are you an’ daddy fighting?” He sniffles.


Makatrice
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T12:35:04Z
ID: 45778
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45779


Many questions have surrounded the rise of the new Midnight, a girl only known as Alice Black. Though many now know who she is, very few know who she was, or even where she came from. I am a person who is in all of these categories. I guarded the person known as Alice Black for a year and a day in her youth at the orders of the former Queen of Midnight, came with her to live at the Night Palace in Amaron, and stood by as the Queen of Midnight instructed her in the ways of the old order. I was at her side when the former Midnight died, and when the girl now known as Alice Black ascended the Opal Throne. My name is Makatrice, and I was there.


The Wayward Diviner
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T13:05:26Z
ID: 45779
Prequels: 45778

Sequels: 45784


The girl now known as Alice Black was, in her youth, known by the name of Alice Lepic, daughter of Pierre Lepic, Dawn, and of Claire Anderson, also of an important station, 9:00 in the morning. Alice had never been happy being the daughter of two of the Days. She regarded them- her parents, and all the days, in fact- with a semblance of disdain. The night was the only thing that interested her. She was secretive. Two days before her 13th birthday, her parents, Dawn and Morning Tea, as she called her mother, took her to the Wayward Diviner, as was customary for children of the Days. The Wayward Diviner had no doubt in his mind. He told Alice’s parents who she was to be the heir of as soon as they walked through the door. But they didn’t believe him. They told him to spin the Bone Wheel, so they could see for themselves. They thought he had made a mistake. The Diviner makes no mistakes. Thirteen times the wheel went round, only to confirm his words. Alice was the Midnight Heir.




