
   
      
         
            Time Warner Cable120 East 23rd Street
            New York, NY 10010
            Connect to Time Warner Cable
            with DTV for FREE!
            
            
            Dear New Yorker,
            
            Finally television that’s smart enough for New Yorkers! DTV—Digital Television from Time Warner Cable—is now available in your neighborhood, and we’d like you to be one of the first to experience it!
            
            DTV is the ultimate choice in home entertainment. From digital picture and sound to new premium packages and a really cool picture-in-picture guide, it’s television you have to see to believe. And the connection is FREE!
            
            Everyone is looking to get the latest and greatest in digital technology. But before you go out and make any major purchases, like buying a satellite dish, you may want to take a moment to read this.
            
            DTV is the SMARTEST and most exciting innovation to happen to television. With DVT you don’t just watch television—you experience it.
            
            DTV offers more than 200 channels, delivered with a picture as bright and as sharp as you’d see on a movie screen and crystal clear sound that rivals your favorite CD.
            
            DTV allows you to receive up to 29 channels of HBO, SHOWTIME, CINEMAX, THE MOVIE CHANNEL, STARZ! and ENCORE.
            
            DTV gives you access to professional and college sports packages that are played outside the local viewing area, including NBA League Pass, NHL Center Ice, ESPN Game Plan, ESPN Full Court, MLS/ESPN Shootout and WNBA Season Pass.
            
            
            
            DTV has an interactive picture-in-picture programming guide that makes watching and controlling your television easy. Quick and concise, an on-screen information banner automatically gives you the who, when, and where of what’s on.
            
            Unlike other services, with DTV, there is no equipment to buy. No up front costs. No contracts.
            FREE upgrades. FREE service calls. 24-hour customer support. And a 30-day Money Back Guarantee.
            Call now for a FREE connection to Time Warner Cable with DTV. Plus, you’ll receive your choice of a
            multichannel premium FREE. That’s a savings of over $60.00! Just call 718-888-4DTV.
            
            
            Sincerely,
            Time Warner Cable
            
            
            
            
            PS. Your neighborhood is also ready for Time Warner Cable’s Road Runner high speed online service. Call today for a FREE connection and save an additional $99.00!
            
            
            
            TIME WARNER
            new york CABLE
            at its best
         
      
   
