




The Sight of a Blinded Man
kwatz
2008-11-10T13:06:49Z
ID: 45780
Prequels: 45585

Sequels: 45952


On what I felt was the fifth day of my captivity – although I will be the first to admit that my reckoning of time had likely fled – they tore the cloth from my mouth and pulled back my blindfold.
As I worked my jaw, I blinked my eyes, trying to adjust to the brightness of the floodlamps behind that illuminated the room before me. My captors loomed behind the lights, anonymous and threatening.
Before me was a mirror, set into the wall next to a heavy metal door. Rust pitted the floor, walls, and ceiling alike. Crusty bolt heads dotted the exposed surfaces at regular intervals. On the diamond plate floor in front of me was the cloth that had been used as my gag. The blood had long since darkened to brown, but I still recognized it as her scarf.
I started to twist my neck around, anxious to glimpse the figures behind when suddenly the lights were extinguished and my room fell into darkness.
Except for the dull glow of the mirror in front of me, which now manifested as a window, backlit from the other side.


The Lights go on at Night (Part Two)
Tad Winslow
2008-11-10T13:21:20Z
ID: 45781
Prequels: 45777

Sequels: 45824


Abbey, Seth, and Calvin—their little pumpkin suited boy, climb their neighbors stairs. Every light is on but no one answers the doorbell. Seth rings again, annoyed by the lack of response.
“The door is wide open, honey, I’m gonna give a holler and if no one answers we’re leaving.” The screen door creaks open. “Hello, trick or treat, is anyone home?” Seth yells. Nothing.
“Wait a second, they left a note.” Big bold letters spell  CANDY IN THE FOYER , HELP  YOURSELF TO ONE PER PERSON PLEASE . HAPPY  HALLOWEEN .
“Alright, Calvin, lets get some candy sweet heart.” Abbey calmly ushers her son inside. Seth follows with some trepidation. The door slams shut behind him and the house clams up. They are trapped. Specks of ceiling paint sift to the floor as the house shakes violently. Seth tries to secure Calvin in his arms but the G force plasters him to the floor as the house shifts from the earth and lifts off at a speed unfathomable. Seth watches the window—Abbey sees Saturn reflect in his widening eyes.


Let Me Shine
Saint Chuck
2008-11-10T13:45:51Z
ID: 45782
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


You are the lightI am the shadowSitting in the glow Of your flameHanging onTo the threads of lightThat encompass youMake you unattainableYet bind me to youIn a wayThat I knowI will never be able to let goKeep me in your glowFeed me those threadsAnd let me shine


Diamond
K
2008-11-10T14:17:06Z
ID: 45783
Prequels: 45740

Sequels: 45840


When you arrive at her door, she is flustered, but smiling. Her dog scampers around at your feet as you wrap her into a tight hug. “I missed you,” you admit, and you can feel her lips mold into a smirk where her head is pressed to your chest. “I missed you, too,” she promises, breaking out of your hug and starting down the hall, pooch in tow. “But right now, we have something more important to worry about.” She stops in the middle of her bedroom, hands on her hips. “I lost my diamond earring that I got for my birthday...just last night.” You can’t help but laugh. It’s a feat that only she would manage. “We’ll find it,” you assure her. But then, you’re not entirely sure how you’re supposed to find the sparkle of a diamond in the sunlight, when all you can really see is the shine in her eyes.


A Brief Misunderstanding
Thyme Passing
2008-11-10T14:26:17Z
ID: 45784
Prequels: 45779

Sequels: none


Noir and I arrived one day later, the day before Alice was to turn 13, at the orders of the Queen of Midnight to escort her heir to the Night Palace. Unfortunately, there were complications that we didn’t anticipate, such as the fact that her parents weren’t thrilled at having their daughter as the heir to one of the Nights. They had already petitioned Noon about the decision, and even though Noon had said that there was absolutely nothing they could do about it, that still didn’t stop her mother from slamming the door in our faces as soon as she saw our Raven wings. For a while there was the sound of yelling and doors slamming, and then an entourage of hansom cabs drove up the road, containing Noon and his escort. They were quickly admitted to the house, while Noir and I had the pleasure of waiting outside in the brisk November air for another twenty minutes. At long last, the door was opened for us by Noon himself. “I apologize for the misunderstanding,” he said. “Do come inside.”


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Catch Me
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T14:55:22Z
ID: 45785
Prequels: 45754

Sequels: 45786


I laugh as the swing picks up speed. He laughs back. It is like we are two kindergardners at a playground. I feel my hair fly and I close my eyes. I am now flying. I feel free as a bird and suddenly I feel Chris stop pushing. I open my eyes to see him standing infront of me.
"Jump!"? He yells to me. "I'll catch you!"?
"Your crazy!"? I yell back, giggling."Oh comon. I wont let you fall, I promise."?
I give in and jump. He runs and catches me around the waist. His hands a gently grasping my hips like he is lifting up a father. He smiles at me and puts me down.
"I told you I would catch you,"? He says in a I-told-ya-so voice.
"That was really fun!"? I say laughing really hard.
"I am glad, wanna do it again?"?
"Sure!"?
I hop back on and do it two more times and he catches me just the same everytime.
"I should be going,"? I say after the thought hits me after the third jump.
"Oh"¦ ya"¦"? He frowns.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 He Would Have
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T14:57:11Z
ID: 45786
Prequels: 45785

Sequels: 45791


"I wish I could stay,"? His face brightens at my statement.
"Comon, I'll take ya home. Wouldn't want you to be late for your date with Eeedddwwwinnnn."?
I laugh at how he says Edwins name. Chris takes my hand and leads me to his car. I wish this could never end. Maybe Edwin will do ok. Just maybe he will.
I is ride back full of music and singing. It almost makes me forget that I am actually going on a date with someone else after this. When we arrive, he stops the car and stares at me instensly.
"What?"? I say, looking at him back.
"Nothing,"? He snaps out of it, "Bye."?
"Ok, bye,"? I say and get out of the car.
It hits me as I fumble the keys for the door. If I was dating Chris he would have"¦ Kissed me"¦ or would he have. I keep this thought going as I walk into the door.
"Hazel!"? I hear my sister calling from the living room.


Rising Hopes
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T15:12:39Z
ID: 45787
Prequels: 43756

Sequels: 45788


She didn’t want the her hopes to rise, just to see them fall again, but she couldn’t help it. “How can you be sure?” She asked again. “Trust me. I’ve talked to him long enough to tell that he’s totally head over heals for you,” Lucy answered. “I thought that before and was wrong,” Janice said, not allowing herself to believe what she had longed to hear for so long.“No you were right. You just thought you were wrong. He never loved me. He’s always  LOVED  you.” “Still...” “If you won’t believe me then just go ask him. He’s right there,” Lucy said, pointing past Janice’s head. Sure enough, there he was. Kyle, in all his god-like perfection, was right behind them. Janice’s eyes opened wide.  OMG ! Do you think he heard us?!He might’ve. Oh no, oh no,  OH NO !!!Calm down. What’s the worst that could happen? So he overheard two girls talking about which one he loved. No big deal. It’ll probably just inflate his ego. You always have such a sunny disposition of life. I know. Doesn’t it make me wonderful?


More Important than Flying Monkeys
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T15:26:50Z
ID: 45788
Prequels: 45787

Sequels: 45790


Sure does, Janice thought rolling her eyes. “Talk to him!” Lucy ordered in a soft whisper. “Alright,” Janice said as she gathered her courage to turn around and face the person she had wanted to for so long. “Hey Janice,” Kyle said, a bit hesitantly.“Hi... Kyle,” his name came out with some difficulty.“Um, how was your day?” he asked trying to get a casual conversation going. He still felt guilty about something. She wasn’t going to make it easy, “Fine.” “Oh that’s good.” “Yep.” They stood there staring at eachother’s feet, while Lucy, dancing around like a monkey who’s feet were on fire and eyes didn’t wuite fit, stood in the background going crazy. “About this morning,” Kyle said, finally breaking the painful silence, “um... well... that really wasn’t the question I had intended to ask you.” “It wasn’t?” Janice said, looking up, her eyes catching his, her breath stopping.“No it wasn’t,” he said, the courage building inside him. “There was something a bit more important than flying monkeys.”


26 Maple Boulevard, Bloomfield, NJ
lovinglife307
2008-11-10T15:33:03Z
ID: 45789
Prequels: 45721

Sequels: 45851


Maple Boulevard.
I looked down at my crinkled map and address. Here we are.
The houses were so huge, I swear they were all mansions.
I swatted an angry fly away from my face, and wiped my forehead with the bottom of my dirty shirt. Seeing the pizza stains, and smelling my clothes made me remember to change before I met my long lost relative. I sure wouldn’t make an impression in this state.
I snuck behind a bush, quickly switching my dirty t-shirt and jeans for a plaid skirt and white blouse. I was prepared.
26 Maple Boulevard, Bloomfield, New Jersey.
I repeated the memorized address over and over in my head as I strode down the lane, looking at the houses one by one.
18, 20, 22, 24...
There it was. Lucky number 26. I gulped nervously. My sweat glands were working overtime.
I walked slowly up the pathway to the huge stain glass door, with stain glass columns on either side. (Have you ever seen those before? Nope, neither have I.)
I pulled at my skirt, took a deep breath, and knocked.


Lots of Silence
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T15:36:26Z
ID: 45790
Prequels: 45788

Sequels: 45810


“Really? I didn’t think anything was quite as important as flying monkeys,” they both laughed. “Seriously, I needed to ask you something important,” Kyle said, regret painted across his face.“Why didn’t you?” ”...I was scared,” he said looking down again.“What were you scared of?” Janice couldn’t imagine anything scaring something this perfect. Kyle stayed quiet.“Oh come on. You can tell me. I won’t make fun of you,” she said. He took a deep breath. “You.” “Me?” she said in disbelief, “Why would I scare you?” “Not you necessarily. But your answer. I was scared of your answer,” Kyle said, his face still firmly facing the floor.“My answer to your important question?” Janice asked, wishing that he’d look at her.“Yea...” “Well ask me I’m sure it couldn’t be that bad.” Silence. “Kyle... Look at me please.” “I... I can’t.” Janice was both shocked and hurt, “Why the hell not?” Again silence.“Kyle...”


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Help?
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T15:39:25Z
ID: 45791
Prequels: 45786

Sequels: 45792


"Yeah?"? I call back, slipping out of my flats.
"Come here for a sec, kay?"? She answers.
I walk hesitantly into the living room where my sister is surrounded by books in the middle of the floor. "What the"¦"?
"I need help."? She says in a huff, throwing the book she had been paging through on the ground.
"What are all these?"? I ask looking around. "And where are the boys?"?
"The boys are upstairs doing who knows what. And these are wedding dress catalogues."? Amber says, gesturing at the many books and magazines around her. "Help me find one? Oh! I saw the perfect one for you."?
I wince when she says this and I just stand in the doorway watching her shift through the pile around her.
"Here!"? She yells excitedly. She looks like a child on Christmas morning. "Hazel, it would just be gorgeous on you! Come look."?


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch. 4 Dress
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T15:40:11Z
ID: 45792
Prequels: 45791

Sequels: 45793


Slowly I walk over as she stands up. She points to the big picture in the center of the page. "The halter top you show off your shoulders beautifully Hazel! And look at the bodice! Aren't the amber stones embedded in it just gorgeous?! The tight fitted top would show off your flat stomach perfectly! Oh and look at the back! These three bows down the back are to die for."? Amber exclaims.
The dress was beautiful, but I couldn't stand to think about it! "Cute. Uh, shouldn't we be getting ready though?"?
"Crap!"? Amber says. She throws the book on the table and rushes upstairs to our now combined room. I laugh at her and follow her upstairs. I walk in on her saying "What to wear..."? and digging through her closet.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Getting Ready
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T15:41:07Z
ID: 45793
Prequels: 45792

Sequels: 45796


I shake my head and go to the bathroom to start my hair, knowing once Amber picks an outfit she'll own the bathroom. I can do my make-up in my room, but all my hair stuff was in the bathroom. I pull my hair out of its ponytail and shake it out. I grab a clip and section off my hair. Taking out my straightener I wonder what I should wear. I wasn't even sure where we were going.
I plug in my straightener and turn it on. While I wait for it to heat, I walk back to my room. Amber is just getting dressed in a mini skirt and button down pink blouse. "Hey, where are we going?"? I ask.
"They're taking us to some fancy restaurant I guess."? She replies.
"Okay, thanks."? I say before returning to the bathroom and straightening my hair.


The Ex
Music-Hearted
2008-11-10T16:23:55Z
ID: 45795
Prequels: 45742

Sequels: 45798


Will you please leave me alone? I really don’t want to talk about Andrew. Honestly, I have nothing to say to you, so please don’t bother me anymore. Yes, I’m aware he’s dead. No, I don’t have any comments. Goodbye.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Little Blue Dress
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T16:25:01Z
ID: 45796
Prequels: 45793

Sequels: 45797


After my hair is all perfect, well almost perfect, I come into the closet and choose my blue dress. I have been saving this blue dress for formal date and I guess now is the time to bring it out. After putting it on, I look at myself in the mirror. My dress had a tight waist and flowed to the knees. The top has speggetti straps and comes to a V. I put on my make up and do one more check in the mirror.
"Hazel!"? My sister calls, "Your man is waiting for you."?
I roll my eyes at what she just said and make my way down the stairs. Edwin is waiting at the bottom with a huge smile on his face. He is wearing a nice white shirt and blue tie. His pants are black.
"You look great,"? He says and grins.
I blush a little, "Thanks."?
"You do look great sista,"? Amber says.
"You do too,"? I show a glint of a smile.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Fun Too?
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T16:26:00Z
ID: 45797
Prequels: 45796

Sequels: 45800


She is wearing a pink dress that is strap less and flows just below the knees. We picked these dresses out together one time. It was a fun shopping day. Edwin takes my hand gently and we walk out the door.
I see a black cadelliac in the driveway that I did not notice on my way in earlier.
"Who's car is this?"?
"It is me and Ashton's. Our father sent it for us today."? Edwin explains
"Nice,"? I say in ashtonishment.
I guess they must be really rich. We get in and drive off. Amber picks a radio station, rap of course, and blasts it. The whole ride is just filled with the blaring of rap. I just stare out the window and think of the fun I had today. Hopefully this will be fun too.


The Father
Music-Hearted
2008-11-10T16:32:33Z
ID: 45798
Prequels: 45795

Sequels: none


We’re raised to believe that we will die before our children do. It’s only natural; we grow old and die, and they carry on after us. That’s not supposed to change.
As a father, I always wondered if I was good enough. I wanted to raise Andrew to be a stand-up man, a good friend, somebody’s husband. I thought he was on his way, but I was blind.
In all honesty, I probably wasn’t around as much as I should have been. I should have talked to my boy, I should have asked him how he felt. He was so young, and I never even considered that he might be so alone.
I made mistakes- Andrew’s mother will be the first to tell you that. But believe me when I say I’ve paid for them with the one thing that mattered the most. If you’ll excuse me, now.


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Restaurant
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T16:49:19Z
ID: 45800
Prequels: 45797

Sequels: 45801


We pull up at Andiamo and Amber glances back at me. This is one of the fanciest restaurants around here. Ashton gets out and walks around to open the door for Amber. Once she is out, Edwin hopes out. He leans back in and helps me get out of the backseat. We follow Ashton and Amber up to the restaurant hand in hand. I am so nervous. I have really high expectations for the night and don't want to be disappointed."Edward."? Ashton says to the girl behind the counter. She nods and motions for us to follow. She shows us to a table in the back near a lit fireplace. Edwin pulls out a chair for me and I sit, smoothing my dress."Your waiter will be right with you."? The girl says before leaving."This is amazing guys!"? Amber gushes."Fer sure!"? I say."It's just a little something."? Ashton replies, looking a little embarrassed. Just then a very professional looking waiter walks up to our table. I stifle a laugh as I see a white napkin draped over his arm."Hello."? He says, a strong British accent in his voice


NaNoWriMo Novel: Ch.4 Jeffery
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T16:51:33Z
ID: 45801
Prequels: 45800

Sequels: 45896


"Ah, Jeffery!"? Edwin says, taking Amber and me by surprise. "So nice of you to come here for this."?
"Of course sir."? Jeffery responds.
"Jeffery is Edwin's butler at home."? Ashton explains. "He came over to show the cooks our favorite dish. And, well, to butler us."?
"Hello Jeffery."? Amber and I say simultaneously.
Jeffery nods in our directions, "Hello Ma'am."? He says to each of us. "What we discussed then, Sir?"? He asks turning back towards Edwin.
"That'll be splendid!"? Edwin says, clapping his hands together.
Jeffery nods and then heads off towards the kitchen.
"That's so cool you have a butler!"? I say childishly.
"I guess. I forget most people don't."? Edwin says, shrugging.
"Same."? Ashton agrees, slinging an arm around Amber's shoulders. Inconspicuously, he nods toward Edwin. Edwin then wraps an arm of his around my shoulders, totally taking me by surprise.
"So, what are we having?"? I ask, ignoring the uncomfortable feeling that is in my stomach from Edwin's touch.


Obsession
Mr. Gabriel
2008-11-10T17:28:35Z
ID: 45803
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45835


“Its gonna be just fine, hun,” my mother insited on the way to my new school. I bet you heard this a million times before, i just came to a new town, blah blah, new school, no friends, but i felt like the town of Marzark was way different than the others. After I arrived to my dreadful destination I was quickly settled in and rushed into my homeroom. “Is he the new kid?”... “He’s cute.” ... “Oh, new kid.” Is all I heard while sitting and all eyes were on me. But who’s complaining?
“Hi, I’m Jared.” He stretched out his arm, apparently wanting me to shake it. I just looked at him, and we both laughed. Who shakes hands? Its too formal. After that everything else went great. Jared introduced me to a lot of new friends and some really cool people. I was actually starting to love school! Well, so far anyway. I kept looking for some flaw, but nothing seemed to come up. This school was just too perfect! After school, Jared invited me to hang out with him.. maybe Marzark wont be so bad.


Legend of Rain
Akinaxx
2008-11-10T18:28:26Z
ID: 45804
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


A legend older than time itself, is about to unravel. No one can stop it, or detour it from its set course. All one can do is sit and listen to the tale as it plays out on a screen much larger than those of the theater. A story filled with adventure, conquest, agony, and relief descends upon this land, Amair. We the faithful people of his highness must follow the rules set for us by royal law. We mustn’t and can’t allow our foolish hearts to divert our attention. That is the fate of those who live in this land, and that is how it has always been. Until today, when a girl with a fiery disposition and a strong heart shall rebel against the empire, change the hearts of the city people, and bring defeat down upon his royal highness. This strong willed girl will fight harder than any soldier ever has and will release her homeland from its suffering, and forever leave her name in glory, Rain.


My World
Artist_Girl
2008-11-10T18:34:20Z
ID: 45805
Prequels: 45577

Sequels: none


Sandra shrank down the hallway, folding her shoulders over her torso. She hugged her precious spiral to her chest, her eyes focusing on the feet trampling around her. She moved slowly through the crowd of chattering teenagers, barely hearing the squeals of glee over having a date for friday or who bench pressed more weight. Selfconsciencely she ran her hand through her tangled hair, knowing that to the high school world it must look like a cat puked up a hair ball on her head. Spotting the girls bathroom, she said a thankfull prayer and escaped from the hallway. Once opening the door, she wasn’t sure if the smoked filled room was any consulation from the hallway.


Resisting Tempation might be a sin(Yay my first poem!)
(:Shay:)luvs_rocket2themoon:)
2008-11-10T18:40:51Z
ID: 45806
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Im tempted to try you againWind me up and let me spinAddiction’s not badIt’s a sinKnowing clearly what may becomeLet me go, Im doneYou’re full of lust, pride, greed and shameYou said no one can escape the painIn the quietI yearn to be in your silver pool of lightWith your arms wrapped around me in the deep nightIm tempted to try you againBut I think I’ll get the better of itWhen your at hand


No One's Been the Wiser [SKC]
g2 (la pianista irlandesa)
2008-11-10T19:08:31Z
ID: 45807
Prequels: 45717

Sequels: none


I’ve never left a trail behind me. Never. There’s no notes, no writing on the wall, no physical signs of affliction. At least, nothing unusual. I know how to get under somebody’s skin. I know how to find what makes a person tick. I know how to mess with the ticking. An odd thing, the human mind. The most complex machine in the universe just... falls apart, if one can mess it up just right. It’s a delicate process. Most usually just go to pieces & do my job for me. Some are tougher than others. That’s where force comes in. I have my methods. It’s usually my trusty switchblade. I’ll have a toughened soul so helpless, so out of it, he’ll fall to his knees & beg for salvation. Kill me now! he’ll shriek pitifully, breath coming in shallow sobs. Out comes the switchblade. A few small scrapes on the back of the hand, or the shoulder, or on the heel. Whatever’s handy. I pull out a vial, & pour some of its contents onto the pearling areas. He’s usually down within 48 hours. No one’s been the wiser.


What to Do When the Ceiling in Your School is Snowing
Ezzie
2008-11-10T19:15:25Z
ID: 45808
Prequels: 45609

Sequels: 45949


I rapped my fingers against my desk nervously. I turned once again to make sure I wasn’t seeing things. Cody was thankfully absent today. I turned around again and breathed a sigh of relief. I didn’t have to worry about people dying today.
So I sat and listened to the dull whir of everyone’s bored thoughts. Bored....bored....bored... was basically all I heard.
Then I felt something on my head, like crumbs. What? I brushed my head off to see white crumbs land on my desk. Then more fell from the ceiling. I looked up.
The crumbs were coming from the ceiling tiles. “What?” I murmured.
“Bree! Pay attention in class for once!” Miss Widler yelled. Everyone stared at me. I blinked and stated, “Yes Miss Widler...but the the ceiling...it’s snowing.”
Everyone looked up at that moment, but of course the ceiling stopped by that time. “Stop distracting everyone Bree. You’ve just wasted a good 5 minutes of learning. So...”
Were all of the teachers out to get me here or something? They never listen to me.


Is that a hard question?(manwhore series)
(:Shay:)luvs_rocket2themoon:)
2008-11-10T19:40:33Z
ID: 45809
Prequels: 45701

Sequels: 45881


“uhhhhhhh...eeeerrrrrrrrr..” I stood there like an idiot, stammering.
He cocked an eyebrow up and snapped his fingers infront of me...
“Gaahhh”I was startled by his snapping fingers...
“Um...Whats your name?” His voice is so melodious.
“Erg.....”
“Um..Is that a hard question?”
I laugh and his face seems to light up. “Um..ya, hehe, sorry, my name is Peyton, Peyton Dallas.”
“Oh like the football player?”
I’d never seen a game of football in my life..
“Errrrrr, ya” i managed to say.
“Well Peyton, I need help finding my first block..it’s um.. Geography with Mr. Craiggory.”
“Oh, Im headed there too!”
“Great! Its in room  B11 , kay, lets go”
I walked with Aydan to Geography....
(anybody wanna sequel?)


Woman's Intuition and Patience
penguincaptain18
2008-11-10T19:41:37Z
ID: 45810
Prequels: 45790

Sequels: 45859


Slowly his face lifted. His eyes met hers. “Janice... I don’t know how to say this. I just...” “Kyle. No matter what it is I’m sure I can handle it.” “I know  YOU  can. I’m just not sure that I could,” he said, his face about to go back to the floor.“Just ask me Kyle. It’ll be ok.” “How do you know?” “Call it woman’s intuition.” “Don’t you have to be a woman to have that?” Kyle teased.“Nice to see you haven’t lost your wonderful sense of humor,” she said, “but stop trying to change the subject. Just ask me already.” “You sure are persistent aren’t you?” “Persistent, stubborn, focused, wonderful.” “That’s why I l-” Kyle stopped. “That’s why you what?” she asked, heart starting to beat faster.“That’s why... that’s why...” he just could get the words out. Patience is a virtue. Patience is a virtue.“I don’t know how to say this,” Kyle finally forced out.“Just say it. Don’t worry about a negative reaction. You probably won’t get one.” “I hope I don’t.” “You won’t.” Kyle looked hopeful.


Bella's Life
sydney_luvs_ya
2008-11-10T20:00:07Z
ID: 45811
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


Isabella Shae, a girl from Mebane North Carolina. It was August 25, Bellas first day of school at CW stanford Middle school. She was entering 7th grade and very nervous. the year before Bella went to AL Standback Middle school,  CWS ’s “rival” wich caused even more pressure on her. Bella wasn’t going to  CWS  alone though, a few people were leaving Standback, no particular reason for it. Bella was glad to here from her new boyfriend, Tommy Warren. They begain going out just two days before. Will Bella make it through the new year as a 7th grader at a new school, with new kids, wich ment new drama!?
This an idea i came up with for a story!  PLEASE COMMENT  saying if u think it could make a good story or not!
thanks and lots of love, sydney!


Because of You
Blusparrow
2008-11-10T20:05:43Z
ID: 45812
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


ButterfliesSmilesCaringWarmHopefulGiddyRelievedAmazedExcitedLaughingHappyBreathlessHeart- racingDreamingWishingWantingAll because of you




