
   
      
         
            NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
            
            GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
            
            OFFICE OF THE DEAN
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            Fall 2000
            
            
            
            
            
            Ms. FirstName LastName
            NumberStreetName
            Statename, StateZipCode
            
            Dear Ms. LastName
            
            Over the past year, the Graduate School of Arts and Science has seen record level contributions from its alumni and alumnae to the School’s Annual Fund. This response is a marvelous endorsement of the work of our students, faculty, and staff.
            
            As you read the enclosed Dean 's Report and Request, I hope you will consider how your support of the Graduate School’s Annual Fund shapes the lives of its faculty and students as it makes an impact on the depth and breadth of their NYU experience. Contributions to the Annual Fund help us to prepare our master’s students with a thorough knowledge of their discipline, as well as the needed skills for success in the workplace. They enable us to provide students with access to state-of-the-art technology and opportunities to attend professional colloquia, seminars, and conferences on and off campus.
            
            Your support of the Graduate School’s Annual Fund is critical to maintaining the core values of GSAS: rigorous inquiry, the lifelong discovery of ideas, and our commitment to the ethics of scholarship. We also hope you have been able to follow the public education campaign for our master’s programs in The New York Times and elsewhere, a sign of our belief in them. Your gift reinforces our emphasis on these ideals that have distinguished the Graduate School of Arts and Science as a preeminent center for advanced learning since 1886.
            
            I am grateful for your continued partnership in our pursuit of these shared values. With best wishes,
            
            
            
            Catharine R. Stimpson
            Dean
            
            
            
            
            
            
            GRADUATE SCHOOL OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
      
   
