
   
      
         
            THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
            
            424 East 92nd StreetLarry M. HawkNew York, NY 10128President/CEO
            www.aspca.org
            
            
            
            His belly was empty. So empty it hurt.
            At least Astro could drink water from a puddle
            near the stake he was chained to. But then
            the puddle dried up. Astro had only a few days to live.
            
            
            Dear Friend:
            
            As you read my letter, somewhere -- perhaps not far from you --someone is inflicting pain on an innocent animal ... an animal like Astro.
            
            You may not be able to rescue that particular animal. But you CAN join the crusade to stop animal abuse and neglect, by making a generous contribution to the ASPCA today.
            
            I have sent you the enclosed complimentary name-and-address labels to call your attention to the work of the ASPCA. Please USE them on your correspondence to help get our name in front of as many people as possible. Because the ASPCA -- and the thousands of animals we help every year --need all the friends we can get!
            
            As a person who cares about animals, you’re probably anxious to know what happened to Astro. A neighbor reported Astro’s plight to the ASPCA and our Humane Law Enforcement officers went to investigate.
            
            When our officers arrived, Astro was too weak to even stand up. The officers knelt down slowly, speaking gently to the emaciated dog.
            
            Then they saw it. Astro was wagging his tail. He was barely moving. but yes -- the poor, sick dog was saying. “Welcome, friends!”
            
            The officers brought Astro to the ASPCA’s Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital. The dog weighted only 45 pounds -- less than half of what a dog his size should weigh -- and he had several infections. But with first-rate medical attention and tender care from ASPCA staff, he slowly got well again.
            
            Stories like Astro’s are all too common. Every day, the ASPCA gets reports of animal cruelty, abuse, and neglect. Every day, our officers rescue animals like Sammy, a 10-month-old kitten who was deliberately thrown from a high-rise window by teenagers.
            
            In a world where cruelty is common, animals like Sammy and Astro desperately need friends like you. That is why I have written to you -- to ask you to support the ASPCA today.
            
            Our vital anti-cruelty efforts are just part of the ASPCA mission. We also find loving adoptive homes for rescued animals ... provide first-rate veterinary care through our Bergh Memorial Animal Hospital ... offer low-cost spay and neuter programs for cats and dogs ... reach out to children, teachers, and parents through our Education Programs.
            
            And we don’t stop there. The ASPCA pushes for the passage and strengthening of anti-cruelty laws, so that crimes against animals will be treated with the seriousness they deserve.
            
            Since the ASPCA was founded in 1866 as America’ s first humane society, ending cruelty has been our primary goal. Today, over 130 years later, the scope of the problem is greater than ever.
            
            The ASPCA urgently needs your help to push back the tide of violence against animals. The task is too large for the ASPCA to handle without emergency assistance from dedicated friends. That is why I’m asking you to join the ASPCA today with your gift of $20 or more if at all possible.
            
            Your contribution will help us rescue more animals like Astro ... make sure the perpetrators of cruelty are brought to justice ... nurse abused animals back to health and find them loving adoptive homes. Please help the ASPCA with your most generous gift today -- the animals are counting on you.
            
            Sincerely,
            
            
            
            Hawk, DVM
            and CEO
            
            
            P.S.We found Astro a wonderful adoptive home. He is the pride and joy of this loving family! But thousands more animals are in peril of losing their lives -- you can help the ASPCA reach out to them by returning the enclosed reply form with your gift today. Please accept the enclosed name stickers as our gift to you and use them to spread the word about the ASPCA and the animals we help -- thank you.
            
            
            A financial report is available from the Office of the Attorney General by writing the Charities Bureau, 120 Broadway New York, NY 10271.
            
            
            2/00 
         
      
   
