



Save the World, Ride a Bike
a visit to Troy Bike Rescue

30. Sep, 2009

This post is the first of a three-part series on bike culture. Come back Friday to read about
anarchy,
bike jousting, and two-wheeled social protest .

Remember when you got your first bike? Was it a Christmas present, or maybe a birthday gift?
Remember how much fun you used to have on that bike, how fast you went, how great it felt?
Well, these days, most kids want an Xbox for their birthday; their parents ride around in
cars with seatbelts, talking on their
phones . Cycling is a thing of the past: a sport, a hobby, but rarely a mode of
transportation. But I'm here to tell you: riding your bike is still fun, and
still fast, and it's the cheapest and most socially responsible workout you'll ever
get .
And there are no two ways about it: if you give a kid a bike, that kid will ride.
In Troy, New York, I met one Andrew Lynn. He's somewhat of a man
brain
trust , and one of his best creations is the Troy Bike Rescue . It started in 2001, when Andrew
would ride around town pulling bikes out of dumpsters. He started hosting work parties with
friends in his backyard, teaching them to fix their bikes and helping them get started riding.
Slowly but surely, the circle grew and Andrew's backyard parties became weekly workshops.
When Andrew decided to leave town for a few years' schooling in NYC, friends and cohorts took
over operations. By the time Andrew returned, Troy Bike Rescue (let's call it TBR) had a life
of its own. These days it's an established club, run by volunteers and donations, turning
trashed bikes into treasures. Its influence now includes a legitimate downtown storefront; a
sister shop in Albany ( Albany Bicycle
Coalition ); movie screenings and pro-cycling political events; and a dedicated core crew
that keeps everything rolling.

TBR's customers run the gamut, from businessmen to street kids to college students to
families. The one thing they have in common? They get it.

This group understands the value of a bicycle: more than just transportation, a
bike is a statement against fossil fuels. More than a toy, it's an equalizer that allows poor
kids to ride with rich. More than a hobby, it's a way of traveling through the world that lets
you interact, use your muscles, breathe fresh air -- all for the cost of a free dumpster
bike.


When I visited the TBR shop, it was packed with frames, wheels, gears, chains, handlebars,
kids, and anarchist art (the space is being donated by some supporters who are also
anti-capitalist activists).
TBR hosts workshops twice a week. For a few hours, the doors are open to anyone who walks in.
Tools are available, and volunteers will help with advice and knowledge. Parts can be had for a
pittance, and you can pick out your own bike from the stacks and racks of machines filling the
space.

The main focus of TBR, however, is not selling bikes. The idea is to give people a workspace
and teach them how to maintain their own bicycle. Self-sufficiency is a major tenet of the bike
movement, and Troy Bike Rescue is training self-reliant individuals of all stripes.
All around me, college students and bike punks tinkered with their machines. An older man
asked for tips on tuning his racer. A young kid came in to say his last bike was stolen and he
needed a new one (and, despite Andrew's stern reprimand that he couldn't just walk in every
week and leave with a free bike, he did just that).

A dad came in with his three kids, all of whom left with snazzy rides -- but first, they all
sat down and worked on their new wheels together.
And as we left at the end of the workshop, a woman walked up to Andrew. "I love what you do,"
she said. "I have a whole bunch of bikes to give you."
See, ultimately TBR is about more than just bicycles. It's about building community, and
triggering a quiet but inexorable social movement. This is not the world's first bike
collective; in fact it's only one of many that have stealthily sprung up around America. These
collectives are not waiting for change to happen: they're creating it through small, positive,
peaceful actions. You too can change the world: all you have to do is ride a
bike.
Try This at Home: Ride Around
Fall is here, which (in most places) means great riding weather. What are you waiting
for?
Bikes are cheap: you can get one at your local thrift store for $5-50. It doesn't have to be
perfect, just good enough to get you places. So pick one up, and ride it to the end of your
block! Then keep going!
Even if your life requires four wheels, you can use a bike for local errands. Ride it to the
corner store when you need milk, instead of driving across town to the grocery store. (Don't
like the milk they sell? Tell the store owner what you like, and see if he'll carry it. Now
you're changing the world.)
On weekends, instead of driving to the park, hop on your bike and go exploring. It doesn't
have to be a workout: you can just toodle around town and look at stuff. Or, if you're a gym
buff, trade a workout for a bike ride. Unless you live on a major highway, odds are you can
ride straight from your front porch to someplace interesting.
On vacation, rent a bike instead of a scooter (or, God forbid, a Segway). It's cheaper, and
much better for the local flora&fauna.
Still not convinced? Then think of it this way: by riding your bike instead of driving your
car, you're reducing your consumption of fossil fuels. You can even calculate the money you
save on gas, and keep it in a jar for a rainy day.

Want to get involved? Bike clubs tend to be pretty anarchic, but if you look around your
community you'll find both bike riders and shop owners who ride for change. Can't find a bike
community? Start your own!









5 Responses to "Save the World, Ride a Bike"




Karen Turnbull 01. Oct, 2009 at 12:54 pm

what a great article, i will be passing it on. In the meantime you might like this blog post
i cam across: http://blog.sophianetwork.org.uk/2009/09/women-tackling-climate-change.html



Raggedy Annarchy 01. Oct, 2009 at 12:59 pm

Tried/shared/re-tweeted, with pleasure! My old thrift-store basket-handle witch- bike was
glad to see the light of day again. Even kept Pansy in the basket as my Toto.
Bike rescue is not just for kids. One of my dear friends who can't drive to due to combat
injuries had her ride stolen while we were sharing a beer in broad daylight last weekend.
Shame, shame. Her partner is a peace corps alum who also works in a bike shop. I passed along
this article to her, and she suggest that when we start our own bike rescue, we'll do like the
U.S. in East Timor did and graffiti Delta Bike Rescue on all the chassis.
Fall is exactly 79% more tingly when experienced by bike.




