




Games [Serial Killer Challenge]
Music-Hearted
2008-11-10T20:06:07Z
ID: 45813
Prequels: 45717

Sequels: none


I like games.
I started playing my games because of people like Jenna. Middle school was cruel, full of disgusting, stinking children. Hardly a place for the likes of me, but nobody ever did a thing about it.
The thing that set me off at first was her hair; it was long and shiny and blonde. Every time somebody spoke to her, she tossed it over her shoulder, rivers of gold streaming down her back. Practically taunting me and my scissors. After a few weeks of the friendly-game, I was no longer “weird”. So when I invited her over to play a game with me, nobody suspected a thing.
I recall how she cried when I chopped it all off with messy, rough snips. I remember her straw-hair wound tightly around her neck; I didn’t need any rope. Tipping over the chair and putting a match to the boyish mess that was the rest of her hair... beauty. The meadow on fire.
Want to play a game with me? There are only a few rules. First, you must play along. Second, don’t try to escape. Oh, and third, I always win.


Frantic Panic
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T20:23:43Z
ID: 45814
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


I can’t breathe! He panicked. He knew he shouldn’t, but he couldn’t help it. The walls were closing in.
Help! The words wouldn’t come. The water filled his lungs, left him hyperventilating, but with each breath more water entered. He choked and convulsed in the water.
Stop! No! His fingers closed around his own throat as he struggled in the water. His eyes bulged and his legs jerked around.
His instinct made him go for one last breath. hello. The water greeted him.
Then he died.


Ready?
.:band baby:.
2008-11-10T20:34:24Z
ID: 45815
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


“Air-ee-el!” Sofia calls.
“Yeah?” I say coming out of the bathroom.
“Your man is waiting.” She laughs.
“That means so is yours.” I say sticking my tongue out at her.
She rolls her eyes and opens our dorm door. “After you.” We both walk out laughing, our arms linked at the elbows. The boys roll their eyes at us and we both just smile.
“Ready?” They ask.
“Yep.” Sofia answers and I nod. I walk up to Tristan and wrap my arms arond him.
“I missed you.” He says as he kisses my lips.
“I missed you too.” I answer, smiling up at him.
“Come on you two lovebirds!” Sofia calls.
“You hush!” I yell at her. She laughs and her and Eaden start off towards our morning class. “We should go.”
“You’re always sayin’ that!” Tristan groans.
“That’s ‘cause if I left it up to you, we’d never part and we’d get nothing done!” I laugh, wraping my arm around his waist as I start after Sofia and Eaden.
“I’m sorry I love you!” He teases.
“I’m sorry I love you too.” I say, kissing his cheek.


Is This For Real?
smarty101
2008-11-10T20:41:43Z
ID: 45816
Prequels: 43098

Sequels: 46623


The penguin ran to the shore and dove into the water. Grabbing me by the fin, he swam me to the shore and plopped me down onto the ground. I couldn’t breathe. He listened to my chest and I blacked out. I awoke to his beak touching mine. I felt woozy and blacked out – again.
I woke for the second time in an igloo, but not mine. Then I saw him in the kitchen. I spoke out.“Hello.” He spun around and exhaled in relief.“Oh, you’re alive!” “Yeah I am, but who are you?” “I can’t tell you.” “Why?” “Because.” I got up. “I just want to know your name.” “I won’t tell you.” I lunged at him and grabbed his throat. He punched me, then his whole body became dead weight. I let go, and he fell to the ground. Dead. I killed the penguin of my dreams. I went to the wall and bawled my eyes out.


This can't be healthy.
burberry714
2008-11-10T21:00:53Z
ID: 45817
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


It took me such a long time, but everything has finally fallen into place. The memories I had of him were all memories of when we were going out, when I thought I was in love. All I had now were memories. There was just one thing. Every memory I had only caused me pain to think about. Simple solution, right? Just don’t think about it. But. How could you not think about it if it was what made you happy? If it was the best few months of your life, wouldn’t you want to remember?Oh, and what sucked the most? The ring he gave me for my last birthday?Unhealthily attatched to it!Sure, I tried to take it off. I went a good three seconds before hyperventilating and putting it back on my finger. I needed to move on. I needed to just forget him, because I was dying inside. There was just one problem. I needed him to breath. Without him, I felt so wrong!Every memory that once made me smile now caused the pain in my chest. I needed to move on. This was surely not healthy for me. Or for anyone..


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 1
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:02:34Z
ID: 45818
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45819


*The sun-rise every morning. Green grass. A warm day with not too much humidity and just enough wind. Beaches. The full moon, the half moon, the moon in wax, the moon in wane.... the moon, basically.  SMILE . That warm fuzzy feeling that you get when you are loved.  YOU ARE LOVED . Friendships that annoy the hell out of you but you know will work out. Learning from friendships that really.... aren’t working out. Cozy, stylish colorful shoes. Having a bedroom all to yourself. Colors.  HAVING A CHOICE . Making somebody else happy. Good food, and plenty of it!  TAKE YOUR TIME . Wrapped in a warm, fluffy quilt. A backpack with your initials embroidered on it. Communication. Sharpies and Hi-liters. Doing what you love.  HUGS . Let the emotion emanate from within you.  OPEN YOUR HEART .


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 2
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:04:23Z
ID: 45819
Prequels: 45818

Sequels: 45820


Caligraphy. A whole page of cursive writing that looks so cool!! Mathematics. Trees. The crunch of leaves under your feet as you walk through the woods. A light snow-fall. Snow day!! No homework. Sunglasses that fall off your face when you run, but look freaking awesome when you’re standing still. A necklace with your name on it.  FAITH . Trusting somebody. Being trusted. Learning how to be trusted. Making mistakes! Wooooo hoooo!!!  DON ’T  WE ALL ?? Isn’t it  FABULOUS ??!!! Being unique! Striving for something and reaching your goal! Making money.  NOT  making money. Curled up on the couch on a rainy day. An evening out on the town. An evening at home chatting up a storm on  AIM . To cell phones!  MUSIC . Blasting the rock and roll so loud that everyone within a ten yard radius can hear it and identify the song. Big butts!  CRYING . Let emotion spill over and catch your tears in something...a box, a hat, a bag. Carrying your tears with you.


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 3
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:06:40Z
ID: 45820
Prequels: 45819

Sequels: 45821


Carrying your love everywhere you go. Being corny and cheesy and old-fashioned and  LOVING WHAT YOU DO !! Not quite being there yet, but getting there. Making friends. Talking things out. Unscrew the bottle cap and let a little bit drizzle out at a time—not all at once. Freshly brewed A&W Root Beer. A good joke.  ANYTHING  that makes you  LAUGH OUT LOUD . Laughing on the inside. Self-esteem.... be it low or high. Being a teenager. Almost being a teenager. Being...um, older. Knowing what time it is! Not knowing what time it is. Owning a watch. People to talk to. A place to sit. A clean place to eat. Clean air to breathe. Being  ABLE  to breathe!  SEX !! Romance. One night stands. Understanding yourself. Somebody else understanding you. Discovering a new love. Chasing after a crush.  FLIRTING . Dancing like nobody is watching.


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 4
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:08:04Z
ID: 45821
Prequels: 45820

Sequels: 45822


Fling your arms over your head and  SCREAM . Running like hell from nothing and toward nothing...simply to run. Sitting on the wet grass and then having wet pants.  YOUR MOST EMBARRASSING MOMENTS . A good story to tell your children. Having children. Not having children. Singing, even when it sounds terrible! A heavy snow storm. Losing electricity. Being late for the bus but having someone to drive you to school. Recovering from a cold. Getting a tan! Being hopelessly pale and not caring! The smiles you get after vacation is over. A pat on the back. The satisfaction you get when you win a card game.  DAMN  that was difficult... but worth it!! A long hand-written letter from a friend. A short note from a close friend.  ACTION . Emotion.  REACTION . Logic. Thinking things over. Not thinking at all.


A Compilation of Reasons to Live: Part 5
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:10:19Z
ID: 45822
Prequels: 45821

Sequels: 45838


A good movie. Reading...  YES ! I finally finished the page! My god, if you think about it, the human body is just  INCREDIBLE . I mean... the nervous system, the digestive system, the cardiovascular system...  BIG WORDS !! What the hell did you just say?  WHATEVER ! Puddle jumping! The sound of the rain on the roof! A beautiful sunset...with reds and golds and blues and purples and.... Rainbows! All the colors really. WE’RE  SNOWED IN ! Thank god I can see things.  MAGIC . Singing in the shower. Choosing not to sing. Singing off-key and laughing about it! Spur of the moment!  I DO  believe in fairies! Freezing cold. Scalding hot. “There’s only us. There’s only this. Forget regret, or life is yours to miss. No other road, no other way.......NO  DAY BUT TODAY .”
-thanks to Jonathon Larson for the final quote


Hello, My Name is Fame
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T21:29:37Z
ID: 45823
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45829


The path veered to the right. I nearly veered off it. Damn. I was daydreaming again. Not on the bike, Fame! I reprimanded myself. Now refocused, I leaned over and peddled harder up the hill through the tall grass and flowers. Almost there...
I reached the top and clapped my feet on the ground to stop my momentum. The wind was blowing hard. I suddenly regretted not getting a haircut when my mom told me to. What am I trying to prove anyway? My mind flinched back against this remark. I swung my legs over the seat and let the bike fall to the ground. Standing there silently I was forced to reflect on that very question.
What are you trying to prove? Or rather, disprove?
My name.
Why?
I’m just a normal guy. I don’t want to be famous.
What are you hiding from? Why are you afraid?
That is a very good question.


The Lights Go On at Night:  Adrift
Stovohobo
2008-11-10T21:44:35Z
ID: 45824
Prequels: 45781

Sequels: none


Seth’s lungs were totally still as he gazed out on the tapestry of stars and planets outside the window. He felt the windows – extremely thick plastic-type material to keep out the vacuum. Amazing.
Terrifying.
Calvin started screaming and crying, and Abbey was going into shock. She collapsed back on the floor, chest heaving as she grasped for air.
Seth rushed over, but as he leaned over her, something hit him in the back of the head. He turned around and grabbed it. A respirator. Seth hesitated, but decided there was nothing else to do.
Abbey’s breath calmed as the cone molded to her mouth, and she settled down to a comfortable peace. Seth thought he could use some of that right about now. Or Calvin, still crying by the foyer stairs.
Seth grabbed his son and gathered him close, fear and confusion leaping through his heart. So many mixed emotions – so utterly strange.
Suddenly a warbling chatter echoed from the ceiling. Then it morphed into a human-like voice.
“Welcome aboard, Maver family.”


Oh, Julianne
lovinglife307
2008-11-10T22:06:18Z
ID: 45825
Prequels: 45451

Sequels: 45940


I still remember finding her, how faded she was. How she faded into nothingness. I remember the overpowering sense of loneliness and sadness and grief. And anger.
The anger, oh the anger. I wanted to find him. I wanted to hurt him, to make him suffer like he’d made her suffer. I wanted to kill him, too. I remember how scared I was of these feelings, of how I had forced myself to stay calm. But now, as I look back, I wish I hadn’t stayed calm. I wish I had acted on them. That feeling scares me more.
But mostly, I remember Julianne. Her soft, bouncy hair. Her nose, her freckles, her eyes. At night, I think of her smile. Oh, Julianne, your smile. And the way the smile lit up your whole face. It was like the sun coming out from behind a dark, gloomy cloud. Oh Juli, oh Juli. I miss you so much.
I hold in these feelings. Not just for my family, but for me. Because I wouldn’t last a second thinking about her.
But at night. Oh, the darkness, coming down to relinquish me of my pain. At night, I cry. I just cry.


Mrs. Madam and the Mouse
pianoman
2008-11-10T22:07:16Z
ID: 45826
Prequels: none

Sequels: none


God cried that day. Tears streamed down a cloudy sky hailing out on whoever stood between them and the ground. Mrs. Madam was the most un-delighted of all. “Rain!” She screech, grabbing the stares of a passerby. She gave him a nasty look scarring the poor man. He scurried out of her furious strutting pace down the sidewalk. She smiled maliciously. She loved the affect her temper paired with her ugly face made on people.“I hate it!” she ranted. The mouse on her shoulder plugged his sensitive ears. “Here we are.” sighed Mrs. Madam. She pounded up the stone steps to a sagging, rundown, grafeteed, doorway lacking a doorknob. In it’s center was a knocker in the shape of Mrs. Madam’s ugly face. Mrs. Madam smiled vainly at the likeness. The smile shrank to a pout as she discovered the archway held no shelter from the torrent. “Don’t go in yet.” reminded the mouse.“God, I know!” snapped Mrs. Madam. She hated being told what to do, but she hated with a burning passion being told what to do by a mouse.


refuge.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:22:58Z
ID: 45827
Prequels: 45769

Sequels: 45828


No, I couldn't lose control. I thought of other things, of home. School, friends, music"¦
Music! Yes, music! I played a song in my head, one that I'd heard on the radio.
Focusing all of my concentration on the song, I started singing and humming parts of it aloud. Somewhere faraway, Karon was saying something to me, but didn’t listen attention to any of it.
It probably looked a little funny, me lying there humming, him trying to talk to me. After only a minute or two of it, I stopped.
I heard scrawling on a notebook, and he said, "Interesting. You really are interesting, Regan."?
He said this with a sort of astonishment, as if by me singing, I'd prevented something previously... unpreventable.
He'd had to have been planning this"¦ had to have known I would have reacted the way I did.
Not many people could control their thoughts unless something were at stake, and even then, many people couldn't. Nothing was at stake for them. Their minds were a refuge, a retreat.
I had no safe refuge.


okay.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:25:54Z
ID: 45828
Prequels: 45827

Sequels: 45831


Karon was still writing down notes, scratching the pencil heavily in the notebook. "Fascinating,"? he muttered.
I was tired, and I needed sleep. Slowly drifting off, I heard him walk out, flicking the light off on his way.
I hated him so much.
Before I fell asleep, my door clicked open again and Theo walked inside, asking, "Are you okay?"?
I was asleep before I could answer.
When I woke up, Theo was still there. "What happened?"? he asked, rushing over to my bed.
"Tricks."? I still had a killer headache. "What time is it?"?
"Five thirty. What tricks? What are you talking about?!"?
"Karon- he.. oh, God, Theo. I'll explain later."?
"Okay."?
"Can you keep an eye on him for me?"? I asked.
"Yeah, sure. You know.. while you were asleep, he came in here a couple of times, taking notes about you. I thought something bad had happened."?
I laughed. "Almost happened. Now I'm starting to wish"¦ forget it."? He wouldn't have understood until later.


A New World
lovinglife307
2008-11-10T22:27:34Z
ID: 45829
Prequels: 45823

Sequels: 45836


At the top of the hill, I veered south. I really didn’t want to return home and face Adelle.
I had never been to this part before, and so I had no clue what awaited me. I would soon find out.
Fields. Miles and miles of them, which seemed to stretch on for much longer than that. My throat tightened at the scene. This was like my dream.
Shivering, and not from the cold, I walked my bike through the tall grasses, not quite sure where I was headed. To be honest, I didn’t really care. And that scared me. I was programmed to be scared. It was in my nature. What was this, some kind of outburst of mechanical difficulties?
Ahhh...
The wind blew smoothly over my face as I dropped my bike to the ground and lifted my face to the pure white clouds above me.
This is what living was. Not any of that Gianna nonsense. This is what everyone was meant for. Just to live.
I smiled. I had entered another world. One where there wasn’t any choosing, wasn’t any Gianna’s, and there most definitely wasn’t any fame.


music.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:44:52Z
ID: 45831
Prequels: 45828

Sequels: 45832


It became soundless again, and Theo said, "Hey, I don't really want to stay in here. Your room is so empty, no windows"¦ can we go to my room instead?"?
"Oh, I don't know, I'm still really tired."?
"Come on, you can sleep in there."?
"Why do you want me to go with you so badly?"?
"I don't know, I just"¦ I don't feel safe. Everyone around here either knows everything or knows nothing, except you. You're the only one who thinks like I do, who understands this at all."?
I still didn't see how what he'd said answered my question or not, but I followed him as he walked down to his room.
Music was booming from somewhere; I'd heard it before we'd even opened the door. The sound was loud, but didn't muffle out everything else. Somebody was sitting in the room, beating his hands against a book to the rhythm of the song.
Theo, ignoring his roommate, pulled me over to the beds against the side of the wall. I sat down on it, and curled up against his pillow, listening to the song. Finally, some relaxation.


tests.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:48:41Z
ID: 45832
Prequels: 45831

Sequels: 45833


Once the song ended, no more started up. "Can you play that again?"? I asked.
"I lost the station,"? a deep voice said.
"Oh."?
I scratched the pillowcase, making a soft sound to help distract myself. It was a little annoying, but soon, I was asleep again.
Theo shook my shoulder. "Time to get up. Dinner."? He laughed. "You snore pretty loud, you know."?
"Shut up!"? I rolled back over, trying to get back to my dream. "Not hungry."?
"Oh. Well, I am. So"¦ you can stay here I guess."? I heard him shuffle out of the room, followed by his roommate.
Pretty soon after they'd gone, someone else entered. "How was your nap?"?
Him again.
"Please leave me alone."?
"Just here to take some tests. "?Doctor Karon pulled something out of his pocket and turned it on with a click. "Sit up, face me."?
He pointed the little flashlight, at least, that's what I thought it was, into both of my eyes, then checked my ears. He jotted down something on his paper, and pulled another instrument out of his pocket.


need.
band geek
2008-11-10T22:54:11Z
ID: 45833
Prequels: 45832

Sequels: 45877


"Notice anything different?"? he asked.
"No."? I had no idea what he was even doing.
"Hm. Now?"?
"No. What are you doing?"? I wanted him to stop.
"How about now?"?
"Get away from her!"? shouted Theo, storming in through the doorway.
"Now, Theodore, this is necessary-"
"I said,  GET AWAY !"?
"Okay, okay. Regan, I'll see you tomorrow. Theodore, goodnight."?
Gathering up his things, he left the room. "You didn't feel any of that?"? Theo asked, bewildered.
"Feel what?"?
"He was poking your eye with a... a needle or something, I think. You didn’t know?!"?
"No, I didn't feel anything."?
Theo walked closer. "I'm sorry."?
"Sorry?"?
"If I'd stayed, he wouldn't have"¦ done it."?
"It's okay, Theo. It didn't hurt"¦ which is weird, but there's nothing to be sorry about. You didn't know. I didn't either."?
"He can't do that to you again."?
I sighed. "He's going to get away with everything. If he "˜needs' to do something, he's going to do it, as much as I don't want him to. He already told me: I have no control.”


Sooner Or Later
Freedom
2008-11-10T22:56:51Z
ID: 45834
Prequels: 45287

Sequels: none


I woke up in Spencer's arms. He smiled down at me sweetly but I gaped in horror. His nose was bleeding and his eye looked like it was minutes from serious bruising. Yet he was smiling.
"What "¦ what happened?"? I whispered to him and his smiled widened.
"It's so great to hear your voice. I saw you in Robert's car and so I came to the rescue. You went out a couple minutes in and I was so afraid that you weren't coming back. He ran off about thirty minutes ago and now it's just us."?
I finally cracked a smile. "Us is just how I like it."?
Despite his destroyed face, he leaned down and kissed me gently. "It's all going to be okay, Grace. It's all going to be okay."? He repeated and maybe, he was trying to convince both of us. Sooner or later, he's going to get tired of rescuing me from Robert and then "¦ well, I just don't know.
For now though, I'm content right here in his arms, far away from Robert.
Discontinued or  THE END  lol :P


Obsession: Innocent
Mr. Gabriel
2008-11-10T22:59:59Z
ID: 45835
Prequels: 45803

Sequels: 45837


Having an amazing time was no problem, considering the fact that Jared and I had a lot in common. I went online and first checked if my favorite ficlet author wrote a sequel to his story. I read and commented it, then checked my Myspace and had a ton of new friend requests from people in school. I accepted them all, and organized them on my ‘top’. Jared was online and I decided to check his profile, and saw that I was already on his top..his first. I didnt think it was a big deal, so I ignored it, leaving him where he was on mine. He later messaged me asking if I had fun and all that day. I answered him, laughing in delight, when he suddenly replied “Hey, why arent i first on your top?” Well, i did have other friends I thought. Plus, I just met him right? He was the one putting me on his top so quickly, so I didnt answer, baffled by what to say. He messaged me again, asking to hang out with me again. I denied the request, because i was already invited by other people. He messaged back seeming... mad


Moving Forward in Ecstacy
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:20:49Z
ID: 45836
Prequels: 45829

Sequels: 45849


“Ow!” I jumped as a circuit in my arm sparked. “Ah hell,” I muttered, sparing only a glance for my robotic arm. “You win some, you lose some.”
I stood there for a moment, deciding where I was gonna go. Staring out at the open fields I realized it was possible to be free. Free from authority, free from pestering humans who had too many questions and too much hate, and most of all free from Gianna.
The wind insisted on punching me in the face, so I punched it back, screaming: “Hoooo yeeeaaaaaahh!” I leaped in the air and landed on my feet, grinning. Suddenly I was ecstatic! I couldn’t hold it in!
“Yeeeee hoooooo!” I cried jubilantly, running and jumping. I grabbed my bike and ran next to it, whooping and hollering. Finally I jumped up and straddled the seat mid-run. My super fast reflexes could do that.
I peddled fast and fast and fast. And I was flying. ...Almost. I didn’t know where I was going but I was moving forward. That much was for sure.


Obsession: Growing
Mr. Gabriel
2008-11-10T23:30:09Z
ID: 45837
Prequels: 45835

Sequels: 45870


I told him to calm down, it wasnt that big of a deal. We could hang out any other day, couldnt we? He seemed as if he understood, and told me to have fun. I was beyond confused. I ignored it, not trying to ruin tomorrows fun. I slept great that night, loving the town of Marzark. After I got to school, I met Jared, er, he met me at the door. In homeroom, he and i were surrounded by conversations in all directions. It was weird how popular I’d become so quickly. Jared was sitting next to me so that may be why. I constantly tried to get into the conversations he was in, I felt like i had to keep up an appearance around him.
After school, me and the group I was with lounged at the the local cafe(which was conviently named “Marz Cafe”). We talked and laughed and had  TONS  of fun, especially with Jueli. She made me laugh, and so did everyone else. I felt bad for leaving Jared though. He was pretty nice to me yesterday on my first day. I looked around and saw him sitting a few tables away, watching.


More Reasons to Love Life
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:33:28Z
ID: 45838
Prequels: 45822

Sequels: 45848


The extent of love can never be reached... so of course we have to reach it! Setting records. Breaking records.  WIN SOME . Victory. Defeat.  LOSE SOME . A good romp in the park with your dog! Oops, now my clothes are covered in dog hair. Window shopping. Collecting random articles for absolutely no reason. Flipping pennies over so the head is face-up.... just so someone else can get lucky. Finding a quarter on the ground...I’M  RICH !! Losing your wallet. “Cest la vie!” Lullabies.  BABIES . The innocence of youth. The internet. Wikipedia saves my life everyday!  LAUGHTER . The sun’ll come out tomorrow!  WEATHER . The 11 o’clock news. Hell, there’s news at all hours of the day! Building a snow-man. Argh my fingers are red and frozen! Hot chocolate. In-door plumbing! Heating.  THANK THE STARS  for air conditioning! Tanning on the beach. Darn it where’s the sun screen? ...And I’m burned. Going out of your way to step on a crunchy-looking leaf.  AND REMEMBER : The sun doesn’t go away just because it’s a cloudy day!


Melody's Grief
Mackizme
2008-11-10T23:39:35Z
ID: 45839
Prequels: none

Sequels: 45841


Melody sat up high in a tree, grieving again for the loss of her trainer, Jayden. He had been attacked by people that were looking for someone named Owen. He told them he didn’t know, so they killed him. Melody had watched it all happen, she ran after the ones that killed her, but they had talents that she did not. They were gone before she could catch them, and she ran back to Jayden. He was gone, and there wasn’t anything she could do about it.
So there she sat, her tears falling through the branches, splashing silently into the earth beneath the tree, sobbing for the loss of her trainer. He had beenteaching her tai kwon do, so she could learn more self defense. She knew plenty now, but that didn’t stop the pain of losing a best friend. She sat, her face buried in her knees, tucked up close to her chest, when she heard footsteps, running footsteps actually.


A Pair
K
2008-11-10T23:40:34Z
ID: 45840
Prequels: 45783

Sequels: 46316


“So, you’ll pray to Saint Anthony for me?” she asks for the billionth time, as your hand lingers over the door knob. You have been idling in her foyer for the past three minutes while you find excuses to not say goodbye to one another. Despite an extensive search of her bedroom, during which she uncovers her middle school yearbook (you laugh at her frizzy hair and braces; she snatches the book back and snaps it shut), a lacy black bra (which she quickly hides away in a drawer, cheeks furiously pink), and twenty dollars (to her delight), her diamond earring is still missing. After promising to spend the rest of the day praying to the Patron Saint of Lost Things you optimistically remind her that at least she has one earring left. “Yes...” she starts reluctantly, “but some things are meant to be a pair.”
One day, the irony may very well kill you.


You're Not The Only One
Mackizme
2008-11-10T23:42:15Z
ID: 45841
Prequels: 45839

Sequels: 45842


"Who"¦?"? she thought to herself, wiping the tears from her face, momentarily distracting from her mourning. She climbed up to a clearing in the branches to get a better view of what was happening. She noticed a boy, he looked about fifteen, but he was short. He was running insanely quickly from two men, probably around their mid thirties. They were chasing him.
She could tell they were armed by the way their clothes moved over places like their ankles or their chests. Melody was not only gifted with various talents such as stealth, the ability to move silently, invisibly and extremely quickly, but she was very observant. She climbed down from the tree, using her stealth power to get next to the boy, running into step with him. He looked over at her, surprised.
"Whats going on?"? She asked him, matching his pace easily.
"What the?! How?!"? The boy exclaimed, amazed that she could keep up.
"Did you think you were the only one with certain"¦ talents?"?


Giving Them The Slip
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:44:33Z
ID: 45842
Prequels: 45841

Sequels: 45843


"So why are they chasing you?"? She asked, aware that the men were catching up.
"How should I know?!"? The boy replied, "I was just walking through town when those two showed up and grabbed me. I ran for it and they've been following me since then,"? he explained.
"Well why don't we give them a slip,"? she asked, winking at him.
"Sounds good to me"? He replied.
They both disappeared, veering invisibly off to the left. The two men came to a halt, not knowing where the youths had gone. Melody and the boy could still see each other, in a sort of mirror world of the regular one. The mirror world was much slower than the real world, which is why they moved so much faster when cloaked by their abilities. Walking would appear as running, when traveling in the mirror realm, that is, if anyone in the real world was able to see them. Melody stopped, as did the boy. "So, who are you?"?


Pleasantries and Beyond
Demosthenes
2008-11-10T23:48:38Z
ID: 45843
Prequels: 45842

Sequels: 45844


"I'm Owen, and you are?"? He asked.
Melody eyed him suspiciously at the question. "I'm Melody"? she replied. She looked over at the two thugs, moving in slow motion. They looked around, and disappeared. She walked over to where they had been standing, to make sure that they were really gone.
"I think it's safe to back there"? She called over to Owen who was still standing where they had stopped.
"Right,"? Owen said, disappearing and reappearing in the real world. Melody did the same and walked over to Owen, now at regular speed.
"So... you ok?"? she asked politely. He looked fine.
"Yeah they never caught me,"? he replied, nonetheless a little shook up. He took a deep breath and looked at her. "So, you have the gift of stealth too,"? he said tentatively.
"Gift of stealth"¦?"? Melody asked
"The ability to be able to go into that mirror realm... run really fast. ...That.”
"Oh, then yeah, I guess,"? she replied. She'd known she had these powers all her life, but she didn't know they had names.




