
  
  
    
      June 6, 2000
      Name Address City, ST Zip
      Dear Name:
      Pat LaCrosse asked me to send this information inviting you to join
      the Georgia O'Keeffe Circle of the Indianapolis Museum of Art's Second
      Century Society (SCS). The SCS brochure I am enclosing will give you the
      historic significance of SCS, as well as listing activities and specific
      benefits awarded to donors at the Georgia O'Keeffe level. Your Georgia
      O'Keeffe membership, please note, includes free admission to all
      art-related activities of the IMA's Young Friends of Art group.
      Additionally, I am sending traditional background materials on the
      Museum and the two latest issues of our Previews Magazine detailing
      upcoming events, exhibitions, and educational programs.
      These are particularly exciting times at the Indianapolis Museum of
      Art: Progress continues on the J.K. Lilly estate-Oldfields, our Ravine
      Garden has been restored to its original splendor, and there is national
      attention showered on our current exhibition of Japanese Painting.
      (please see The New York Times article I have included.) With thousands
      of trees and flowers in bloom, we are having a beautiful Spring!
      Our extraordinary permanent collection, facility, and grounds, we
      understand full well, would not be possible without the philanthropic
      support of civic-minded men and women. In joining SCS, you join the ranks
      of those who believe that bringing art and art education to the city
      makes life better, richer, and more rewarding for the entire
      community.
      A Second Century Society response card and return envelope are
      enclosed. Should you have questions or if I can be of assistance in any
      way, please call me: 317.923.1331, ext. 248.
      Sincerely,
      ARLETTA B.NEWTON Donor Relations Coordinator Enclosures/
      P .S. Both our Barefoot in the Grass family picnic (July 23,2000) and
      the annual SCS Founders Day celebration (October 11,2000) are free for
      Georgia O'Keeffe members. Mark your calendars!
      
    
  
