



The Anti-Terrorist - Undermining The Motivation For Terrorism

 By Rev. Bill McGinnis , Director - LoveAllPeople.org

 This website and everything on it is in the Public Domain, so you may use it freely, even
without attribution. 




BACKGROUND , September 11, 2004
 Three years have now gone by since the September 11th attacks in 2001, and terrorism is a far
greater threat to us now than it was then. The number and severity of terrorist attacks
worldwide has increased dramatically, as has the number of active terrorists. Before 9/11,
terrorism was confined to a small number of extremist individuals, loosely linked by radical
Islam and hatred of Israel and its sole supporter, the USA. Now, many more moderate Muslims have
become radicalized, world-wide, willing to kill innocent civilians in order to achieve their
purposes. And the serious targets have expanded to include civilians in Russia, India, Maylasia,
the Philippines, Spain, and elsewhere, as well as Israel and its sole supporter, the United
States. True, the USA has not suffered a successful major attack since 9/11, but this does
not mean that we are safer. The terrorists could strike any time they choose, through any of
the numerous loopholes so well reported in our media. But they have chosen not to attack,
perhaps because they are waiting to produce an effect even greater than the 9/11 attacks, so
they do not appear to be losing strength. What could be more spectacular than the 9/11 attacks?
Nuclear! Or massive bio-chemical attack! And I think this is what they are waiting for. All of
our frantic preparations may have had some effect in preventing small-time casual attacks, but
they cannot stop a serious planned attack, any more than a mere door lock can stop a serious
robber who really wants to get into your house.  So the Bush administration can keep
claiming that we are safer now, under their policies. But this claim is merely feel-good
propaganda, intended to keep the neo-cons in power. It cannot withstand clear-headed scrutiny.
The fact is, Bush policies have failed completely even to diminish terrorism, much less defeat
it. By trying to "stamp out" terrorism by killing terrorists, Bush and Israel have made things
infinitely worse for us: more dangerous, not safer. And proof that Bush has failed may come at
any moment, explosively, with one big successful attack here in the USA.  May God help
us all. 
WHAT IS TERRORISM?
 TERRORISM is "the systematic use of violence to create a general climate of fear in a
population and thereby to bring about a particular political objective." Source: Britannica.com
http://www.britannica.com/search?query=terrorism&ct=  We believe that any terrorist act
is a crime against humanity and against the will of God, because it deliberately intends to
injure and kill innocent people. 

NEUTRALIZING TERRORISM
 Our purpose here is to NEUTRALIZE TERRORISM by removing the motivation for it. Without
motivation, terrorism will quickly die down, like a plant without water. 
 We completely reject the idea that terrorism can be defeated by brute force, because brute
force radicalizes the moderates, and they then join the terrorists. So you end up fighting the
entire population. Brute force has failed in Palestine, and it is failing in Iraq. 
 We try to be even-handed in opposing all terrorism, although we recognize that the greatest
terrorist threat in the world today comes from radical Muslims who falsely believe that Allah
approves of their criminal behavior against Israel, The United States, Russia, India, the
Philippines, Australia, and others whom they falsely believe to be "waging war against Allah."
And the second-greatest terrorist threat comes from several countries, mainly Israel, who
sometimes resort to terrorism themselves, claiming "self-defense," as they desperately try to
prevent further attacks by radical Muslims. In all of these cases above, if the radical Muslims
would cease their attacks, all terrorism on both sides of every dispute would quickly end. 
 Beyond these two sources, there is virtually no terrorist activity in the world, with the
possible exception of localized disputes such as in Northern Ireland and occasional domestic
episodes in various places involving isolated disaffected groups. 

The moral and religious theories which support terrorism are quite faulty and
erroneous. They need to be identified and attacked. If the terrorist loses faith in the
righteousness of his acts, he is less likely to perform them. 


EXAMPLE 1: "Terrorists
Offend Allah."


EXAMPLE 2: "Terrorist
Murderers Insult Allah, Bring Shame To Islam"


EXAMPLE 3 (LATEST AND BEST!
- Framed Below): "Qur'an Forbids Terrorism"


In every case of terrorism, we will find some kind of legitimate underlying
grievance. If we eliminate the legitimate grievances, we have eliminated much of the
motivation. 
 Is this "negotiating with terrorists" or "trying to appease the terrorists," as some
Israeli/NeoCons would try to say? No. It is simply recognizing the realities of human
motivation, right or wrong. To deny reality, as the Israeli/NeoCons do, is to invite disaster,
as they have done. 

BIG PICTURE

A big picture of our entire Anti-Terrorism strategy can be found at our website
=> http://www.loveallpeople.org/defeatingterrorism.html . 



 Blessings to you. May God help us all. 

Blessings to you. May God help us all. 

 Rev. Bill McGinnis, Director - LoveAllPeople.org


