
   
      
         
            
            
            I’m outraged ... and I think you will be, too!
            
            Just imagine finding your favorite hiking trail or birding area littered with dead birds -- among the hundreds of thousands of unsuspecting and innocent creatures who were unlucky enough to consume lethal doses of a slow-acting poison spread in fields miles away.
            
            And who plans to commit such a mass bird killing?
            
            The U.S. Department of Agriculture!
            
            In fact, the USDA has plans to spread poisoned rice in sunflower fields throughout the northern Great Plains targeting two million migrating blackbirds and threatening nearly 70 other bird species.
            
            it’s almost unthinkable that a program this reckless could be implemented -- in view of the tragic impact that poisonous chemicals and pesticides like DDT have had on wildlife and people.
            
            Thanks to the help of caring and concerned people like you, Audubon won a temporary halt to this planned killing last spring -- but the USDA’s plans could be up and running for the next blackbird migration, unless we act now.
            
            Let me tell you exactly what’s at stake ... and how this could set a dangerous precedent: First of all, you might wonder why blackbirds are not benefiting from the Migratory Bird Treaty Act’s prohibition against actions that cause intentional harm.
            
            You see, the USDA found a loophole allowing these protections to be lifted for “experimental” activities.
            
            So they applied for the right to spread poison as Dart of a “scientific experiment” -- to learn whether lowering the population of blackbirds by poisoning them will reduce sunflower crop loss.
            
            Can you believe it? The USDA wants to conduct an “experiment” that will spread enough poison in our environment to kill two million blackbirds.
            
            And if the death of two million birds doesn’t “prove” their theory -- and show a reduction in crop loss -- they’ll likely seek the right to kill even more birds the next year!
            
            It’s time to tell the USDA, in no uncertain terms:
            
            “YOU WILL NOT CONDUCT MASSIVE BIRD KILLS
            
            TO BENEFIT A HANDFUL OF SPECIAL INTERESTS!”
            
            Because the USDA’s slow-acting pesticide takes three days to kill, its victims will likely fly many miles from the poisoned fields, before falling to the ground.
            
            Meanwhile,blackbirds aren’t the only birds threatened directly by the poison. We’ve noted the presence of 68 other species of grassland songbirds in the proposed poison-baited areas ... including the Bobolink, Grasshopper Sparrow, Harris’ Sparrow and Le Conte’s Sparrow.
            
            In all, nine birds on the Federal threatened or endangered lists and 11 birds on Audubon’s WatchList of imperiled species could be found in these killing fields.
            
            We simply cannot afford to let the government repeat the mistakes of the past ... and operate this deadly and uncontrolled experiment on wildlife.
            
            Here’s what I need you to do, to make sure we prevail: First, I need you to sign and return your Petition to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture.
            
            I’ll forward your Petition, along with those from thousands of other Audubon members and supporters, urging the USDA to withdraw its cruel plan to poison blackbirds ... in favor of alternative, benign methods of protecting sunflower crops.
            
            I can assure you that thousands of Audubon Petitions can make a difference -- just as they did in a successful battle against an adverse wetlands proposal a few years ago!
            
            But today’s battle is one we must win ... to block a dangerous experiment that would begin to erase 50 years of steady progress eliminating pesticides and other harmful chemicals from our environment.
            
            That’s why I hope you’ll also agree to help even more by making a tax-deductible gift to support this crucial initiative and all of Audubon’s vital conservation work to protect birds, other wildlife and habitat. And with a donation of $15 or more, you’ll receive a FREE Birdfeeder in appreciation for your concern.
            
            I’ll make sure your gift is put right to work in our efforts to:
            
            ·Win a ban on the USDA bird poisoning.
            ·Gain strict enforcement of wildlife laws.
            ·Ensure wildlife programs are based on sound science.
            ·Monitor the health of Audubon’s WatchList species.
            ·Conserve America’s remaining grassland habitat.
            
            And Audubon will draw upon its century-long track record of highly effective conservation work to make a real difference in other key areas:
            
            Audubon protects birds. Your help will be instrumental to our bird conservation work: designating Important Bird Areas to protect vital habitat ... maintaining the WatchList of bird species near endangered status (www.audubon.org/ bird/watch) ... and engaging citizen participation in the vast BirdSource database of North American bird trends.
            
            Audubon rescues endangered wildlife. Nearly 25 years ago, the National Audubon Society helped win passage of the Endangered Species Act. With your help, Audubon will remain committed to wildlife laws and regulations that are well funded, properly implemented, and strongly enforced.
            
            Audubon establishes and protects wildlife refuges and sanctuaries. “Audubon is truly making a difference for wildlife refuges everywhere” says U.S. Fish and Wildlife official Rick Coleman. And your support will help sustain our innovative Audubon Refuge Keepers program, and maintain our own network of more than 100 wildlife centers and sanctuaries.
            
            Audubon restores wetlands. Wetlands are not only crucial to wildlife ... they also help purify our drinking water and prevent billions of dollars worth of flood damage. Your gift today will help us reach our goal to restore one million acres of irreplaceable wetlands.
            
            Audubon educates the public. Teaching Americans --particularly young people -- how to become better stewards of our environment is one of the best investments that you and I can make for wildlife. That’s why we’re expanding our network of Audubon Centers to reach children and adults in every corner of the nation.
            
            And of course, your support will enable Audubon to stand ready to act whenever a wildlife crisis emerges
            --like the USDA’s bird poisoning proposal that I’m asking you to help us defeat today!
            
            So let me urge you to do your part by supporting a group that the San Francisco Chronicle calls “one of America’s most respected and influential conservation organizations.
            
            First,sign and return your Petition to the Secretary of Agriculture immediately, to declare a firm and resounding “NO!” to the USDA’s bird poisoning plan.
            
            And I also hope you’ll take a second important step today, by supporting Audubon’s vital conservation work with a generous tax-deductible gift. Thank you.
            
            Very truly yours,
            
            
            John Flicker
            President
            
            P.S.Your gift will help us save birds, other wildlife and their habitat for future generations to cherish. And in thanks for your gift of $15 or more, you 11 receive a FREE Birdfeeder. Supplies are limited ... so please respond today!
      
   
