
   
      
         
         IFAW
         ANIMAL
         SANCTUARY
         FUND
         Your donation will help give an animal a safe home!
         Dear Ms. LastName
         I wanted to personally write you and give you our 2001 Collectible Calendar and talk about animals in danger - a cause we both care deeply about.
         Please take a moment to look over the enclosed 2001 Animal Sanctuary Calendar. Be sure to write me back to let me know your 2001 Calendar has arrived m good order. I’m sure you will want to keep it and prominently display it to enjoy these striking wildlife images.
         Don’t you agree that the lion and baby seal are looking right into your eyes? The mother elephant has a watchful eye on her young calf. And if you have ever experienced to sight of a diving dolphin, you will be brought instantly back to that exciting moment when turning to our August image.
         Can you imagine the lion on our calendar cover being cruelly killed for a hunter’s trophy?
         Can you imagine the baby seal crying out for fear as a sealer raises his club?
         Can you picture the baby elephant and mother with no place safe to rest and find water?
         Many of our critics say that you and I who love animals attribute intelligent and sensitive qualities to “stupid, non-feeling” animals. But our ability to feel the fear and know the pain that animals experience is no “error in judgement” nor “overblown sentimentality”…it is real. It is humane.
         The International Fund for Animal Welfare is one of the largest, most effective animal welfare organizations in the world with a special mission to save animals’ lives, prevent cruelty, and protect natural habitat for wildlife to live and enjoy life in harmony with man.
         Too, too often, man has not been a good neighbor to animals. Whether we talk about clubbing baby seals to death for their beautiful pelts, or butchering elephants with hacksaws for their ivory, or trapping animals in steel-jaw leghold traps where the pain is so excruciating they have been known to chew off a leg to escape, we stand guard for all animals.
         All animals need a place to “get to” in order to be safe from bullets, cruelty, traps and clubs.
         IFAW’ P.O. Box I 93 Yarmouth Port, MA 02615-01 ‘www.lfaw.org
         IFAW is now launching our year 2001 Animal Sanctuary Fund to provide safe places for animals to live out of the danger tat comes from humans and loss of habitat. This is a new, special project that has been expanded into a permanent program.
         Whether it is to fund additional land for the Addo elephant park in South Africa where 29 calves were born this year or our partnership with Future Generations to save vital habitat for moon bears, bengal tigers and other animals, or our response to move orphaned lions to 500 acres of protected African bush where they will live safely for the rest of their lives… we are committed to the concept of ANIMAL SANCTUARIES.
         I’m positive you agree with this most basic, humane approach. I won’t even ask if you support this program. but rather, I must ask how much you can afford to support this Animal Sanctuary Fund today?
         I do not like to ask for money No one does. But money gives us the POWER TO PROTECT AND DEFEND THE VOICELESS.
         Will you please join with me today to help save animals from pain, suffering, hunger, hunting and abuse?
         Your gift will help give an animal a safe home.
         Be absolutely sure, your donations do save lives. For 31 years, our name has been associated throughout the world wit saving innocent animals. Many people know us as the Save the Seals people and we have saved thousands of animals - seals, elephants, cats, dogs, bears, whales. This new program will be a huge success with your help.
         I thought you would enjoy our 2001 Animal Sanctuary Calendar. It is a unique gift to you for taking your time to hear my vision of new safety for the world’s animals and my request for your hard-earned money
         The simple fact is we cannot continue without your generous gifts. Gifts of $100, $25, and $15 all are important to keep our Animal Sanctuary Fund operating.
         Please rush me your generous gift of $100 or $15 today while these endangered animals are on your mind and in your heart.
         Animals don’t ask for much of us. All they need is safe homeland and freedom from pain and fear. Your donation today could save a life tomorrow
         For the animals,
         Fred ORegan
         President
         PS. Please enjoy the photographs of the animals you are so generously befriending. And please use the enclosed 2001 Calendar Reply when writing me back.
      
      
   
