
   
      
         
            APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN CLUB members take recreation time seriously and know the importance of good trail information. Here are four packages with our most popular titles for you at incredibly low prices.
            (Retail value: $40.85) Holiday Price $29.95
            
            
            
            
            For getting in touch with nature Maine can’t be beat—it’s an outdoors lover’s paradise! From seaside trails in Acadia National Park to Baxter Park’s vast wilderness, you’ll encounter a host of wildlife, untram­meled hiking trails rimmed with towering pine, and more than 100 crystal-clear lakes, ponds, and thunder­ing rivers.
            AMC’s Quiet Water Canoe Guide: Maine offers a chance to experience unspoiled quiet places, to observe wildlife in their natural habitat, to paddle and completely unwind.
            When you hit the trail, AMC Maine Mountain Guide and AMC Guide to Mount Desert Island and
            Included in your gift set:
            AMC Maine Mountain Guide, 7th edition
            AMC Guide to Mount Desert Island and Acadia National Park
            Quiet Water Canoe Guide: Maine
            (Retail value: $43.85)Holiday Price $29.95
            
            
            New Hampshire Family Recreation Kit
            
            Take two of our most popular Nature Walks guides, add a Quiet Water Canoe Guide and you have the makings for an unforget­table family vacation in New Hampshire! Now is your chance to get a great discount on Nature Walks in the New Hampshire Lakes Region—the latest addition to our Nature Walks series—and Nature Hikes in the White Mountains. These guides are perfect for your family day hikes—they’re pocket-size, full of helpful information such as what to wear and how to prepare, and the highlights chart makes choosing a walk easy
            Kids love to paddle, and the expertly Water Canoe Guide: New Hampshire/Vermont is family oriented and easy to use. It includes detailed maps and photographs; camping and picnicking information; driving, parking, and canoe put-in instructions; illustrated nature essays; tips on safety and equipment. Find a nearby hidden gem and start planning your next weekend or fam­ily vacation with all three superlative guides.
            
            
            Included in your gift set:
            Nature Hikes in the White Mountains
            Nature Walks in the New Hampshire Lakes Region
            Quiet Water Canoe Guide: New Hampshire/Vermont
            (Retail value: $38.85)
            Holiday Price $29.95
            You can spend a lifetime in New York City and miss out on the remarkable abundance of green space throughout
            the metropolitan area. And in New York state there are even more adventures—great paddling destinations from Long Island to the Adirondacks. The key is knowing where to go.
            
            
            Membership in a Bottle!
            The definitive gift of friendship for any AMC member to give. It’s a starter kit to sharing the outdoors. Your friends will love you for it and you’ll be helping AMC and its stewardship of the environment with each gift you give. Membership in a Bottle includes:
            ·32-oz. loop-top Nalgene water bottle
            ·12-month AMC individual membership
            York by land or by water. The authors of Nature Walks and Quiet Water have checked out countless locations, culling the best so you don’t have to take a long drive to a disap­pointing hike or paddle—you can rely on their reporting to guarantee a great trip every time.
            
            
            Induded in your gift set:
            Nature walks in and around New York City
            Quiet Water Canoe Guide: New York
            
            (Retail value: $28.90) Holiday Price $19.95
            
            
            
      
   
