
   
      
         
            AT&T 
            ClassicGoldPlatinum
            
            
            Dear Cardmember:
            
            Were pleased to send you the enclosed AT&T Universal Card to replace your current card. Please destroy your old card and begin using your new card as of the “valid date” printed on your new card. Please see your card carrier for additional information and instructions.
            
            Delivering your new card gives us an opportunity to remind you how we’re delivering more ways to make your card more useful. We’ve made your card easier to use with features you can customize yourself… more valuable with special savings programs.
            
            Convenience features
            
            ·AT&T Calling Card feature Use your card to make local, long distance, even international calls from virtually any phone. Simply dial 1 800 CALL ATT® and follow the recorded instructions.
            
            ·Account Online View your statement, see unbilled activity or pay your bill on the Internet. Look for the Instant Access Code on your statement, then go to www.universalcard.com and follow the instructions.
            
            ·AutoPay EFT Payments Skip writing checks and have your payment made electronically from your bank account each month. Enroll on Internetor call Customer Service for details.
            
            Personalized features
            
            ·Cycle Date You can time your statement and payments to coincide with convenient times of the month by choosing your billing cycle date.
            
            ·Personal Identification Number (PIN) Choose your own PIN to use for cash access and calling.
            
            ·Calling Card Number Choose your own calling card number too, to make calling easier.
            
            Save on calls with the AT&T One Rate Calling Card Plan.
            
            If you haven’t already enrolled, sign up for this plan that saves you money on your AT&T Universal Card calls. You get the low rate of 25 cents a minute anytime, anywhere in the U.S. on all your AT&T Universal Card calls when you make the call yourself by dialing 1 800 CALL ATT. To enroll, call 1 800 741-9302. The low, $1 monthly access fee will be conveniently billed to your account.
            
            For more information on any of these features, call us at 1 800 423-4343. Thank you for carrying the AT&T Universal Card. We look forward to continuing to provide you with a card that grows with you through the years ahead.
            
            Sincerely,
            
            
            
            A
            Mark Gilder
            Vice President, Marketing
            Universal Card Services Corp.
            
            
            Calls made from payphones are subject to a surcharge. AT&Ts surcharge is up tp $30 per call.
            
            20% POST CONSUMER WASTE
         
      
   
