



December 2000
Name
Address
New York, NY 10009
Earn up to 15,000 Mileage Plus® bonus miles on your choice of cruises!
Dear Name:
Great destinations, your choice of itineraries, big bonus miles, and 3rd and 4th
passengers cruise FREE —now sailing away with Renaissance Cruises is more rewarding
than ever. But see for yourself, because
these special rates are available only through January 7, 2001!
Renaissance Cruises vacations escort you from one fabulous destination to the next in
a beautiful cabin aboard a brand-new ship. You’ll enjoy four outstanding restaurants,
nightly entertainment, an exciting casino, a fitness center and world-class spa — and
more! Optional shore excursions will provide the best opportunities for exploring the
highlights of each fascinating port-of-call!
This great offer is available on select sail dates from January through March 2001,
you can sail between Istanbul and Barcelona, Rome and Athens, or Athens and Istanbul.
Just look at these great itineraries! Cruise rates start as low as $599 for an
outside cabin on select sail dates, and all offer the option of your 3rdr and
4th passengers cruising free!
Select the itinerary that piques your interest, and call On-Call Travel Services to
reserve your cabin. Specify UWAX5 to receive this offer. Low international airfare is
also available. Offer is first-come, first-served and at this incredibly low rate,
cabins are sure to sell out quickly, so call 1-800-822-2841 today!
Sincerely,
Jack Mercer
Silver Wings Plus Cruise Desk
Price shown is for an outside cabin on select sail dates and new bookings only. Price
is per person, based on double occupancy, for cruise only, may vary by sail date, and
requires full payment at the time of purchase. Offer is subject to availability and
is not combinable with other offers, cabins may sell out before offer expires on
1/7/01. Cancellation fees may apply. All schedules and itineraries are subject to
change. Government tees and charges for all passengers are additional. All guests are
subject to the terms and conditions of Renaissance cruises’ Passage contract,
available upon request. Bonus miles are per cabin and will be credited within 8 weeks
of sailing. Mileage Plus account number must be provided at time of booking.



