
  
  
    
      
        What to Do
        Shopping
        Inflation has taken its toll in Hong Kong. While it’s no
        longer the bargain shopping destination it once was, there are still
        some good buys to be had. Since Hong Kong is a duty-free port and
        charges no sales tax, goods are cheaper here than in the country where
        they were made. On photographic equipment, electronic goods, and
        watches, you avoid the luxury tax payable in your home country.
        Specialty goods and souvenirs, often handmade, come from Hong Kong and
        elsewhere in China. Custom-made garments by skillful Hong Kong tailors
        are still much in demand and cost less than elsewhere for comparable
        garments. Note that alcohol and tobacco are both exceptions to Hong
        Kong’s duty-free regime and are subject to tax.
        You’ll find that prices are about the same in Hong Kong
        Central and Kowloon, and somewhat cheaper in Causeway Bay, which caters
        to local shopping. Large shops on the fashionable thoroughfares tend to
        be more expensive than smaller “family” shops tucked away in the side
        streets.
        Stores do not open until 10am or later, but shopping goes on
        into the evening, up to 9:30pm. Most shops are open seven days a week.
        Shops in Central are an exception; they generally close at 6pm and are
        not open on Sunday. The only holiday on which all commerce comes to a
        halt is the Chinese New Year in January or February.
        Buyer Beware. Be aware that name brands, including
        electronics, are sometimes fakes, glass may be sold as jade, and that
        antique you bought may have been made last night. Always ask for a
        receipt that records information about the item, and if you buy an
        antique, be sure to get a certificate of authentication. Needless to
        say, avoid peddlers who approach you on the street and offer to take
        you to wondrous bargains.
        The large department stores have fixed prices, but elsewhere
        you should ask whether there is a discount, especially if you buy
        several items in one shop. Compare prices before you buy any
        significant item. Always ask to see the manufacturer’s guarantee when
        purchasing watches, cameras, and audio-visual and electronic
        equipment.
        Note that when haggling, the merchant assumes you are
        prepared to pay cash. If, after concluding a deal, you try to pay with
        a credit card, he may then boost the price in order to cover the card
        charges.
        It is advisable to shop at outlets that are members of the
        Hong Kong Tourist Association (HKTA), identified by a red junk logo.
        Membership imposes an obligation to maintain standards of both quality
        and service, and provides dissatisfied customers with an officially
        recognized channel for redressing complaints; the number to call is
        Tel. 2508 1234. Pick up a copy of HKTA’s “The Official Dining,
        Entertainment & Shopping Directory” in which all member stores are
        listed.
        Shipping. Many stores will pack and ship purchases. Ask if
        automatic free insurance is provided. If the goods are very valuable or
        fragile, it is a good idea to buy an all-risk insurance for the
        shipment. Packages sent to the US or to Europe generally take six to
        eight weeks by surface mail, and one week by airmail.
        Shopping Areas. Major shopping areas are Tsim Sha Tsui in
        Kowloon, especially along Nathan Road; Central on Hong Kong Island,
        particularly for upscale designer goods; Causeway Bay for slightly
        better prices; and the Hollywood Road area.
        Department Stores. Look for Lane Crawford Ltd., an upscale
        store with branches at Pacific Place, 70 Queen’s Road, and Harbour
        City; Wing On, one of the oldest in Hong Kong; Marks and Spencer; and
        the Japanese department stores, Mitsukoshi, Sobo, and Seibu.
        Malls. Hong Kong is full of giant malls. Harbour City, just
        west of the Star Ferry Terminal in Tsim Sha Tsui is one of the largest;
        Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, is Central’s biggest mall, with retail
        outlets and department stores; Times Square is a collection of retail
        outlets in Causeway Bay. In addition, most top-line hotels have upscale
        malls full of designer boutiques.
        Factory Outlets. These stores sell excess stock or factory
        overruns. Hong Kong is no longer a factory outlet center since much of
        its clothing manufacturing has moved elsewhere. There are factory
        showrooms in the Pedder Building, 12 Pedder Street, in Central.
        Markets. Markets are the places to use your bargaining
        skills. Hong Kong’s most famous and colorful market is the Temple
        Street Night Market near the Jordan MTR stop. Every conceivable kind of
        goods is sold here: clothing, all kinds of electronics, CDs, souvenirs,
        crafts, and jewelry.
        Stanley Market is located on Hong Kong’s southern coast,
        and is well-known for all kinds of clothing, including silk and
        cashmere. Bargain, and carefully examine any merchandise you buy
        here.
        The Jade Market, on Kansu Street in Yau Ma Tei, is known
        for both jade and freshwater pearls. This is not the place to make
        expensive purchases, but it’s great for inexpensive pendants, earrings,
        and gifts.
        What to Buy
        Antiques. Hollywood Road in the Mid-Levels above Central is
        the most famous antiques street in Hong Kong. Look for fine Chinese
        bronzes, embroidery, lacquerware and porcelain, tomb figures, and wood
        carvings, among other possibilities. The experts point out that it is
        not age alone that determines a Chinese antique’s value — the dynasties
        of the past had their creative ups and downs. For serious antiques, try
        Honeychurch Antiques at no. 29 for furniture and silver, Tai Sing
        Company at 122 for porcelain. For fun you can visit the Low Price Shop
        at no. 47 or the Cat Street crafts stores and flea market.
        Brocades and Silks. Fabrics from China are a bargain and
        well worth taking home. Chinese-product department stores stock silk
        fabrics, silk scarves, finely embroidered blouses, and traditional
        padded jackets. Chinese Arts and Crafts is at Pacific Place in Central,
        and in Star House in Tsim Sha Tsui; CRC Department Store is on Hennessy
        Road in Causeway Bay. For fabrics, also try Western Market, Morrison
        Street, in Central.
        Cameras. Photo buffs know that Hong Kong is the place to
        buy some of the world’s most advanced photographic equipment, and there
        are some real bargains around. However, be sure you compare prices and
        models before buying. Two reliable places to start looking in Lan Kwai
        Fong are Photo Scientific in the Eurasia Building and Hing Lee Camera
        Company, 25 Lyndhurst Terrace.
        Carpets and Rugs. Hong Kong is a mecca for Chinese
        hand-knotted wool carpets and silk rugs. Hong Kong’s stores are usually
        able to arrange shipment. Caravan at 65 Hollywood Road and the shops in
        The Silk Road at Ocean Center in Tsim Sha Tsui are good places to start
        looking.
        China (Porcelain). In Hong Kong you can have a plate, or
        even a whole dinner service, hand-painted to your own design. Factories
        in Kowloon and the New Territories, producing traditional and modern
        china, are geared to entertain and instruct visiting tourists; prices
        are appealing. Two of the largest places to go are the Wah Tung China
        Company in the Grand Marine Industrial Building in Aberdeen; and the
        Overjoy Porcelain Factory in Block B of the Kwai Hing Industrial
        Building, Kwai Chung, in the New Territories. In antiques shops, look
        for highly valued porcelains from China. Note that because of the
        duty-free situation, good bargains may be found in European china,
        including Spode and Wedgwood.
        Electronics. The latest gadgets are sometimes available in
        Hong Kong before anywhere else. Before you begin shopping, pick up
        HKTA’s “Shopping Guide to Consumer Electronics. ” Prices on electronics
        have risen in the past two years; check prices at home before you buy
        here. Nathan Road has many electronics shops. Also check out Star
        Computer City in the Star House near the Star Ferry terminal.
        Furniture. The choice ranges from traditional hand-carved
        Chinese rosewood furniture to well-made reproductions of modern Western
        styles. Rattan furniture is highly popular. Hollywood Road has several
        furniture shops. Queen’s Road East in Wan Chai is a furniture
        manufacturing and retail area.
        Jade. “ Good for the health” is just one of the many
        magical qualities that are attributed to these beautiful emerald-green
        or turquoise stones. Real jade is extremely expensive, and you may be
        offered counterfeit jade, which looks exactly like the genuine article.
        Some people say you can test the authenticity by touch — real jade
        feels smooth and cool. Alternatively, you can shine a lamp on the
        stone — real jade shows no reflected light. Better still, go shopping
        with an expert.
        Jewelry. Thanks to the duty-free situation, prices in Hong
        Kong are lower than they are in some other places. You can buy
        gemstones loose or set, or have them made up to your own design.
        Popular purchases include diamonds and freshwater pearls. If you do
        plan to buy jewelry, be sure to consult the “Shopping Guide to
        Jewellery” published by the Hong Kong Tourist Authority to find a
        reputable dealer.
        Kitchen Equipment. Woks and any other gadgets essential for
        Chinese cookery make good purchases. Department stores sell all sorts
        of intriguing kitchen equipment.
        Leather Goods. Leather is not a great bargain in Hong Kong.
        Locally made items do not live up to their European models. However,
        the leather garment industry is growing, and there is a wide range of
        locally produced leather accessories, all at extremely attractive
        prices. For European imports, you will pay top dollar.
        Musical, Audio, and Video Equipment. Hong Kong has a vast
        range of the most high-tech audio-visual, sound, and screen equipment.
        Before purchasing, visitors should make sure of compatibility with
        systems in their own countries. Be sure to look around and compare
        before buying. Whatever you buy, you may be able to work out a
        discount.
        Ready-to-wear Clothes. Hong Kong’s shops carry almost every
        recognizable European and many American labels, from top-end designers
        to the moderately priced or trendy. Nathan Road, Central, and the hotel
        malls are places to look. There are still a great many factory outlet
        stores with reasonable prices. You’ll also find bargain clothes for
        sale at the markets and on push-carts.
        Tailoring. Tailor-made clothes are not as popular in Hong
        Kong as they were in the past, but hundreds of shops still remain.
        Local tailors are experts when it comes to producing custom-tailored
        garments for both men and women, and are also adept at copying
        patterns. The result can be a quality suit at a fair price — but
        made-to-measure clothing is not cheap. In choosing a tailor, look for
        HKTA membership. Many tailors have Web sites or are listed on Web
        sites.
        Tea. Shops all over town will sell you gift tins of exotic
        blends. If you want to learn something about tea, go to the Tea Shop at
        149 Hollywood Road, or the Moon Garden Tea House at 5 Hoi Ping Road,
        Causeway Bay. The owners will brew up a pot so you can taste before
        making a choice.
        Watches. The saying “Time is money” is quite literally true
        in Hong Kong: more is spent on watches and clocks here than on cameras
        and optical goods. An enormous variety of makes and models are on sale.
        Be sure to get the manufacturer’s guarantee stamped or signed if you
        buy a watch.
        Entertainment
        Day and night, the action goes on in this vibrant city. To
        help you choose a nightlife scene, pick up a copy of Hong Kong Tourist
        Authority’s dining and entertainment guide for listings, or just simply
        wander through the maze of neon signs and take your pick. Hong Kong
        Diary published weekly by HKTA tells what’s happening in the arts. Hong
        Kong Life is published by the Hong Kong Standard on Sunday, and the
        South China Morning Post has an entertainment section on Friday.
        Culture buffs are well catered to, and there is always a
        varied program of events, ranging from world-class concerts to local
        amateur dramatic productions.
        A highlight of the arts calendar is the annual Hong Kong
        Arts Festival, a three-week dose of international culture in February,
        with concerts, recitals, plays, jazz, Chinese opera, and innovative
        productions put on by leading talent from both East and West. Tickets
        for the shows must be reserved well in advance. The Festival of Asian
        Arts takes place every other October, bringing to Hong Kong for two
        weeks orchestras, dance groups, opera, and drama companies from all
        over Asia.
        There are more than 30 cinemas in Hong Kong, and the latest
        Western releases are shown in some of the larger ones. English-language
        films have Chinese subtitles. Films with Mandarin dialogue also have
        Chinese subtitles, for the benefit of Cantonese speakers, and sometimes
        subtitles in English.
        The Hong Kong International Film Festival takes place in
        April. More than 200 films from all over the world are shown at this
        two-week event. Ask at City Hall center about advance reservations.
        The Performing Arts
        Performance Venues. The theaters in the Hong Kong Cultural
        Center in Tsim Sha Tsui are the main venues for concerts and opera.
        Other performance centers are the City Hall cultural complex, with
        exhibition halls and theaters that present concerts, plays, and films;
        the Hong Kong Academy for the Performing Arts with two major theaters
        for dance, drama, and concert performances; and the Hong Kong Arts
        Centre in Wan Chai, where both local and visiting groups perform. Other
        centers for concerts, plays, and entertainment are Sha Tin Town Hall
        and Tsuen Wan Town Hall in the New Territories. Larger arenas,
        including the Queen Elizabeth Stadium, the Hong Kong Coliseum, and the
        Ko Shan Theater in Kowloon play host to various concerts, pop concerts,
        sporting events, and variety shows.
        Classical Music. The Hong Kong Chinese Orchestra performs
        new and traditional works; a wide assortment of traditional and Chinese
        instruments are featured. The Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra was
        founded in 1975. Under its conductor, David Atherton, it offers Western
        classical works and new works by Chinese composers in a
        September-to-June season.
        Chinese Opera. Cantonese opera is alive and well in Hong
        Kong, and the two other forms, Beijing and Kun, are sometimes
        presented. To most foreigners, this unique art form is likely to be
        inscrutable at first exposure, but everyone can appreciate the
        spectacle and the elaborate, glittering costumes. Although the music
        may seem strange to the unaccustomed ear, it certainly won’t put you to
        sleep; cymbals and drums guarantee your alertness.
        Dance. Hong Kong’s three professional dance companies — the
        Hong Kong Ballet Company, the Hong Kong Dance Company, and the newer
        City Contemporary Dance Company — perform regularly, often at the Hong
        Kong Academy for the Performing Arts.
        Theater. The two leading local troupes, the Chung Ying
        Theatre Company and the Hong Kong Repertory Theatre, perform in
        Cantonese; there are English-language performances at the Fringe Club
        theaters, 2 Lower Albert Road, in Central.
        Puppet Shows. The classic Chinese puppet is the shadow
        puppet, manipulated behind a screen by three rods, but hand puppet and
        marionette shows are also on offer, often for free at public parks and
        playgrounds.
        Nightlife
        Hong Kong by night can suit any taste — riotous, sedate,
        raw, or cultured. Note that sometimes there is a cover charge of HK$50
        to HK$200 at clubs, which may or may not include a couple of
        drinks.
        There are nightclubs in the principal hotels, with bands,
        dancing, and floor shows. Many restaurants and bars have live
        music.
        Jazz fans will find live jazz presented by international
        artists at the Jazz Club and Bar, 2/F, 34-36 D’Agular, Central; and at
        the Blue Note in the Kowloon Shangri-La Hotel in Tsim Sha Tsui. The
        Frin ge Club, 21 Lower Albert Road, Central, is Hong Kong’s best-known
        alternate entertainment venue, with jazz, rock, and other live music,
        in addition to a gallery for visual arts.
        Bars with views and live music include Sky Lounge in the
        Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Tsim Sha Tsui; and Cyrano in the Island
        Shangri-La in Pacific Place. Pubs are numerous. In Tsim Sha Tsui, Ned
        Kelly’s Last Stand on Ashley Road is an Aussie institution; Delaney’s,
        71-77 Peking Road, is one of Hong Kong’s enduring Irish pubs.
        The clubs and bars of Wan Chai, long the center of seedy
        nightlife, have become almost respectable. Joe Bananas, 23 Luard Road,
        is a Wan Chai mainstay for all-night partying. Rick’s Cafe, 78-82 Jaffe
        Road, is a long-time disco that’s still popular. A lot of the raunchy
        action has moved across the harbor to Tsim Sha Tsui East; this is also
        where you’ll find pricey hostess clubs, popular with Japanese tourists,
        but definitely not for those on a budget.
        Today’s trendy spot is Soho (SOuth of HOllywood) around
        Hollywood Road, Elgin, and Stauton streets. Soho, along with the Lan
        Kwai Fong area, is popular with chuppies (Hong Kong yuppies) and has a
        lively bar scene. Causeway Bay also has a variety of bars and clubs.
        TOTT’s, in the Excelsior Hotel, is a restaurant with live music and
        dancing and a harbor view.
        Japanese karaoke bars have now become extremely popular
        with the locals. There are a number of these on Chatham Road South and
        around Cameron Street in Tsim Sha Tsui.
        Nightlife tours are offered by a number of companies. The
        most typical of these are harbor cruises, usually including dinner and
        dancing on board an air-conditioned floating nightclub. There are
        evening bus tours that include visits to a restaurant and night spots;
        some tours combine a Chinese banquet with a visit to an open-air market
        and the panorama from Victoria Peak.
        Sports
        Participant Sports
        Beaches. In subtropical Hong Kong you can swim from April
        to early November. There are more than 40 beaches in Hong Kong that are
        free to the public. Most have lifeguards on duty from April to October,
        changing rooms, toilets, and snack stands. On Hong Kong Island, Repulse
        Bay is the most popular; others are Shek O on the east coast and
        Stanley and Deep Water Bay on the south coast. They are very crowded,
        especially on summer weekends. On the outlying islands, Cheung Chau and
        Cheung Sha are on Lantau, and Hung Shing Ye and Lo So Shing on Lamma;
        inquire about water pollution levels.
        Golf. The Hong Kong Golf Club (Tel. 2812 7070) welcomes
        visitors to its three 18-hole courses at Fanling in the New
        Territories, or the 9-hole course at Deep Water Bay. The Discovery Bay
        Golf Club on Lantau island (Tel. 2987 7273) has an 18-hole Robert Trent
        Jones Jr. course, open to visitors Monday, Tuesday, and Friday. Many
        Hong Kong residents and visitors take the express train to Guangzhou to
        play at the Guangzhou Luhu Golf and Country Club (Tel. 2317 1933 in
        Hong Kong or 020-8350 7777). The 72-par course was designed by Dave
        Thomas.
        Hiking. In the New Territories the famous MacLehose Trail
        stretches 97 km (60 miles) from Sai Kung Peninsula to Tuen Mun. The
        Lantau Trail is a 69-km (43-mile) circular trail on Lantau Island that
        begins and ends at Silvermine Bay. Both trails are divided into smaller
        segments of varying difficulty. Maps of hiking trails are available at
        the Government Publications Center, Low Block, Government Offices, 66
        Queensway in Central. HKTA also has trail maps and sponsors the Guided
        Nature Walks, led by rangers, that include hikes in all the different
        regions of Hong Kong.
        Jogging. Victoria Park has a jogging track in Causeway
        Bay.
        Sailing. Because of the heavy harbor traffic, only sailors
        licensed by the Hong Kong authorities can run pleasure boats in local
        waters. Contact the Hong Kong Yacht Club at Tel. 2832 2817 for
        information.
        Taijiquan (Tai Chi). HKTA offers lessons in these exercises
        that improve concentration and balance at Garden Plaza, Hong Kong Park,
        Admiralty (Tel. 2058 1234).
        Tennis. There are 13 public courts at Victoria Park Tennis
        Centre (Tel. 2570 6168), near Tin Hau Station.
        Spectator Sports
        Horseracing. All levels of society share a feverish
        interest in the Sport of Kings. The racing schedule is September to
        June, and Hong Kong maintains two tracks — the older Happy Valley
        course on Hong Kong Island and the striking Sha Tin track in the New
        Territories. The Hong Kong Tourist Association runs a “Come Horseracing
        Tour,” which includes entry to the Hong Kong Jockey Club visitors’ box
        and members’ enclosure, and a buffet-style meal.
        Cricket. The Hong Kong International Cricket Series, held
        in late September, brings teams from all over the world.
        Rugby. The Rugby Sevens sees teams come together from all
        over the world for 15 matches in March or early April.
        Children’s Hong Kong
        Hong Kong has many attractions that appeal to children of
        all ages. Hong Kong’s many beaches are especially fun for children.
        Children love riding on Hong Kong’s antique trams. A ride on the Peak
        Tram is sure to provide a thrill, and in the Peak Tower they’ll enjoy
        the Peak Explorer ride and Ripley’s Believe it or Not!
        Ocean Park (see page 32) is popular with children of all
        ages. There’s a special Kid’s World that those under 12 can enter free
        when accompanied by a paying adult. The more daring can try out the
        terrifying roller-coaster rides.
        Hong Kong’s state-of-the-art interactive museums will
        interest children of all ages. The Science Museum in Tsim Sha Tsui East
        allows children to get their hands on over half of its 500 exhibits,
        while the nearby Space Museum has regular screenings on an enormous
        Omnimax screen in its Space Theater, making the night sky come
        vibrantly alive.
        For children who love boats, riding the Star Ferry or ferry
        trips to outlying islands will be exciting, and the Dolphin Watch trip
        (see page 113) is certain to appeal. If you plan to visit during May,
        the carnival atmosphere of the Cheung Chau Bun Festival, with its high
        bamboo-and-paper towers covered in sticky buns, will fascinate the
        young ones.
      
    
  
