
   
      
         
         December 7, 2000
         FirstName LastName
         StreetNumber StreetName, 
         CityName, StateName, ZipCode
         Dear Friend,
         
         As a member of World Wildlife Fund, you know that our efforts are essential to preserving the astonishing,
         yet desperately threatened diversity of life here on Earth.

         I’m also hoping you know that you play a vital role in achieving our conservation goals around the
         globe.

         That’s why I want to extend my appreciation for your last membership contribution of $500. And
         why I’m writing you today to ask you to renew your support for the pivotal year ahead.

         In fact, I want to urge you to strengthen your dedication to saving life on Earth — by sending a generous
         leadership gift of $750 and becoming a member of World Wildlife Funds prestigious Living Planet Society.

         With your increased commitment, we can move forward to thwart the most serious threats to endangered
         ecosystems. After all, conservation begins with saving those at-risk places -— our forests and deserts, wetlands and oceans, mangroves and coral reefs — that provide a lifeline for
         precious animals and plants.

         To this end, we’ve designated some 200 ecoregions, those with the most outstanding and diverse habitats, as
         our Global 200. We’re now creating model projects in 25 of these high-priority areas -- in order to balance
         conservation with people’s need to use natural resources to sustain their livelihoods.

         With your increased commitment, we can intensify our campaigns to protect species that are in grave peril by
         both the loss of habitat and the illegal trading in animal parts.

         Quite simply, WWF must do even more to safeguard the tigers, rhinos, pandas. whales, and other creatures
         that still remain in the wild. While we still have the chance.

         So in addition to our efforts to conserve wildlife preserves, we’ll escalate our trailblazing program to
         find alternatives for traditional tiger-based medicines ... rescue more rhinos in Kenya and Nepal through our
         ambitious translocation projects ... complete the first survey of China’s pandas in over a decade ... and fight
         to halt all commercial whaling, as well as the whale meat trade.

         We’ll also award more small grants through our Species Action Fund to help a wide range of animals,
         including whooping cranes, giant river otters, and Tibetan antelopes.

         And with your increased commitment, we can battle against destructive global forces that transcend regional
         and national boundaries. Overfishing, deforestation, climate change, and the proliferation of toxic chemicals
         top the list.

         For instance, our innovative “Forests for Life Campaign” establishes an international network of parks and
         reserves. This will protect at least 10% of each different type of forest found in every country. Another WWF
         goal? To end government subsidies that promote overfishing and to encourage new markets for sustainably managed
         fisheries.

         The challenges we face are daunting, to be sure. However, I’m confident that by joining together again, we
         can make exciting progress in the year ahead. I want to ask you, therefore, to renew your valued World Wildlife
         Fund membership and, hopefully, at the Living Planet Society level of $750.

         When you do, you’ll extend your commitment as an esteemed partner with WWF -- the largest and most effective
         international conservation group in existence.

         Now, with your increased commitment, we can save more of our planet’s cherished wild species and their
         irreplaceable habitats ... as we strive to ensure a healthy and thriving future for our extraordinary natural
         world.

         Once again, please accept my warmest gratitude for your past support And please, take a moment today to
         renew your critically important WWF annual membership. Thank you.

         Sincerely,
         Kathryn S. Fuller
         President
         P.S. As a Living Planet Society member, you’ll receive the wonderful array of benefits described in the enclosed brochure. Plus, to acknowledge your increased gift of $750, we’ll send you a free copy of our stunning coffee-table photography book, Living Planet Preserving Edens of the Earth. Please let it be a constant reminder of all you’re doing to preserve our endangered wildlife!
      
      
   
