



For The Blind, Inc.
371 EASIJERICHO TURNPIKE, SMITHIOWN, NEW YORK 11787-2976
It’s people like you who make it possible to give the priceless gift of 
“Second Sight” . 
Dear Friend,
Think what it would be like to live in a world of dark shapes and shadows where you
never know what to expect; to feel afraid to go places, to be hesitant about every
step you take. For too many, this is a daily reality — but today you can help make a
difference.
Having a guide dog allows a blind or visually impaired individual to experience the
possibilities of life, not the limitations.
It costs over $20,000 to breed, care for and train a guide dog like “Duke” and to
train his blind teammate. We use Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers and a cross
between Labs and Goldens. Male and female dogs are used. And our dogs are specially
bred for temperament and physical soundness.
Every Foundation guide dog is given free of charge to someone who is blind or
visually impaired.
We are supported entirely by donations from generous individuals, corporations and
foundations. We receive no government funding.
The only way we can continue to provide guide dogs, at no cost, to someone who is
blind or visually impaired, is through your support.

Friends like you make it possible to give the gift of “Second Sight®”. I hope the
Foundation can count on your caring donation today. Many people send gifts of $35,
$50, or even $100 or more — whatever you are able to give to help
maintain this vital service.

And having a guide dog does make a real difference in the lives of our students. It’s
the special bond — of a loving and working 24 hour a day partnership.
“As a boy in Bosnia, I walked my dog. Now my guide dog, Franklin, walks me” says
Sead. He was blinded at 15 by a Serbian missile. “After I got my beautiful black Lab,
I finally felt like a human being again. Now I believe almost anything is possible.
Franklin has opened up a whole new world for me. A world I thought I would never have
again.”
As Pat explains, “Both my friends were zipping through crowds while I lagged behind,
even though I was a fast cane walker. I envied their freedom and most of all, the
incredible bond they both had with their guide dogs. With my Lab, Jay, I feel so
wonderfully FREE!”
Hank says he was a good cane traveler for 17 years — but felt his freedom was
curtailed particularly when traveling. “I had never had a pet. Having Aries just
makes life so much easier. For one thing, people are nicer to you. People love dogs.
They can relate to him and feel they have something to talk to you about.”
Our graduates, who are leading active lives assisted by the guide dogs given to them
by the Guide Dog Foundation, include: social workers, teachers, secretaries, policy
makers, college students, musicians, writers, homemakers... mothers and fathers.
As one of our donors in the New York area told us, “Sometimes you never see the good
work your money does. I see the results... the guide does I’ve helped sponsor
dramatically improve the lives of the men and women who receive them.”
Won’t you please take the time now to send your donation to give someone the
priceless gift of independence?
Sincerely,
Wells B. Jones
Chief Executive Officer
RS. For more information about the Guide Dog Foundation, or to become a Guide Dog
Foundation volunteer, visit our website at www.guidedog.org.



