




CENTER FOR MARINE CONSERVATION
Dear Friend,
The enclosed set of name and address labels is a FREE GIFT to you from America’s
leader in protecting our increasingly vulnerable ocean planet -- the Center for
Marine Conservation. I hope you enjoy using them as you correspond with your friends
and family and help us spread the word to protect ocean wildlife.
I hope, too, that they remind you just how much danger these beautiful marine species
and their ocean habitats are in right now!
Even today, after years of public outrage, dolphins continue to die in tuna fisheries
of other countries and are still being cruelly and often illegally killed by gillnets
and harpoons. And now, growing numbers of dolphins with malignant tumors and high
levels of toxic chemicals in their tissues are washing onto U.S. beaches. The cause -
undetermined, but the suspected culprit is pollution poisoning our oceans with toxic
chemicals and sewage.
And thousands of endangered sea turtles and other creatures continue to die each year
unnecessarily due to wasteful fishing and over development, forces that keep these
species in a fragile state.
When it comes to the oceans, people take ... and take ... and take -- without ever
giving.
I trust, however, that you will give back.
A tax-deductible gift from you now of less than a nickel a day can bring
you into the ranks of the most influential and effective marine conservation
organization operating today.
At a price nearly half off the regular membership dues, you will receive a host of
member benefits (more on these in a moment)_and, far more important the satisfaction
of actually doing something to improve the ocean world we pass on to our
children.
The Center for Marine Conservation can put your membership donation to work right
away to protect ocean wildlife, preserve marine habitats and prevent the marine
pollution that poisons our watery planet.
Your nickel a day can, when it joins the stream of other member donations, help stop
water pollution at its source ... protect sea turtle nesting beaches from development
... and defend seals, dolphins, and other ocean wildlife from the threat of
entanglement and drowning in fishing nets and marine debris.
Will your gift really help? Definitely yes!
over, please
1725 DESALES STREET, NW. · WASHFNGTON, DC 20036 · www.cmc-ocean.org
You’ll be part of a team that’s already
convinced Mitsubishi and the Mexican government to abandon plans to build a massive
salt production facility on the shores of critical calving and breeding grounds for
gray whales.
won a major court victory that closed thousands of square miles to U.S. longline
fishing because of its threat to the survival of Pacific leatherback sea turtles.
helped create National Marine Sanctuaries critical to the survival of marine wildlife
-- from endangered manatees in the Florida Keys, to humpback whales off New England’s
Stellwagen Bank, to sea otters in California’s Monterey Bay.
These are prime examples of hard fought victories and critical efforts that are
working to improve the health of our marine environment.
But our programs need your backing.
You can help us spread our message to protect ocean wildlife by using the enclosed
labels on all your correspondence. Also, take a moment to review the practical tips
on the back of the form -- share them with your family and friends --and put them
into action today!
And won’t you also please make a tax-deductible contribution of just $15
--or more if you are able -- to help save the dolphins, whales, sea turtles,
and other amazing marine creatures who so desperately need support from all of us
these days!
At the same time, you’ll receive CMC’s benefit-packed New Member Welcome Kit ... a
free subscription to our exciting full-color quarterly newsletter, Marine
Conservation News ... more steps you can take to protect our oceans regular
legislative updates and action alerts ... and an official membership card.
All that for less than a nickel a day -- an amount you really can’t afford not to
spend. Please let me hear from you now.

Sincerely
P.S. Of course, your personalized labels are a gift, yours to keep whether or not you
choose to join us. But think how much you -- and your loved ones who share this
watery planet of ours -- stand to gain if you join. Isn’t that really worth at least
a nickel a day?
P.P.S. And, if you are able to send a gift of $15 or more, as a special new member
bonus, I’ll send you our exclusive dolphin tote bag. It’s made of navy cotton canvas,
features three playful dolphins, and it’s a great way to show your support and
protect the marine environment.



