
   
      
         
         NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION
         8925 Leesburg Pike
         Vienna, VA 22184-0002
         November 3, 2000
         Dear Friend of Wildlife,
         I hope you will be pleasantly surprised -- and delighted -- with the enclosed National Wildlife Wrapping Paper Collection and matching gift tags.
         They are our gift to you to keep and use on your holiday packages in thanks for considering this important appeal for wildlife.
         The wrapping paper and matching gift cards feature delightful holiday wildlife images that will come in handy for wrapping your last minute presents. These images will be cheerful reminders to you and your gift recipients of all the wildlife treasures we value.
         During this holiday season, we must not forget the wildlife species that depend on us for their survival. When you use the attractive wrapping paper and gift tags, you will be helping us spread the word about saving America’s wildlife treasures and their habitat.
         While you are under no obligation for these small tokens of appreciation, we do hope that they will remind you to do your part in our conservation effort on behalf of all wildlife and wild places by...
         accepting this special invitation to join National Wildlife Federation as our newest member.
         I’m sure you’ve heard of us either directly or by our publications and activities. We are one of America’s largest and most successful conservation and education groups. Ever hear of Ranger Rick the famous children’s wildlife magazine? That’s us!
         
            Ranger Rick is just one of our many wildlife publications. We also publish Your Big Backyard and Wild Animal Baby. And we’re famous for distributing the one magazine in America that’s been called “the world’s most beautiful nature magazine,” the award-winning NATIONAL WILDLIFE.
         
         As a member you’ll play a role in educating millions of Americans — young and old alike — through these outstanding wildlife publications and many other related activities such as distributing Wildlife Week materials to millions of American schoolchildren each year.
         (over, please...)
         For more than 60 years, caring and concerned wildlife lovers like yourself have supported our mission to educate, inspire and assist individuals and organizations to conserve wildlife and other natural resources and to protect the earth’s environment in order to achieve a peaceful, equitable and sustainable future. That’s what it’s all about securing a place for wildlife in the modern world.
         Today you have the opportunity to join this successful cause by becoming a member of NWF for as little as $15
            . Besides having the satisfaction of knowing that you are doing your part to help save our wildlife heritage, you will also receive some outstanding benefits of membership including:
         A one-year subscription to our beautiful full color magazine, NATIONAL WILDLIFE.
         
         Attractive wildlife stamps, calendars and cards.
         An official membership card and decal.
         Through the colorful pages of NATIONAL WILDLIFE you will be fascinated by exquisite photography from some of the best nature photographers in the world. Our magazine is a great way to stay informed on the current issues affecting wildlife and see what NWF is doing to find solutions to these problems. And you’ll enjoy a series of insightful stories on a variety of wildlife species stories that can’t be found anywhere else!
         As an added welcome gift, we will send you an exclusive NWF tote bag. When you use it in place of plastic bags you help conserve our natural resources. The tote bag is made of a strong, cotton material and has plenty of room, including a handy sewn-in pocket. And it’s a great way to show your commitment to conservation every day.
         We are constantly working in every part of the country to save those species and special places that are in all of our minds. Here are some of the projects in the forefront at NWF right now:
         Working to improve the water quality and water flow in the Florida Everglades so
         magnificent creatures like the gentle manatee can survive.
         Reintroducing the grizzly bear into the Selway-Bitterroot wilderness area of Idaho
         and Montana.
         Building on our success of reintroducing the gray wolves to Yellowstone National
         Park by expanding gray wolf recovery into suitable habitat in the United States.
         Your gift is needed now to support these critical projects and so many others. Despite our many victories, we still have far to go to ensure a healthy future for the wildlife and wild places of this nation. So, please take a moment right now and become a member of NWF with a gift of only $15 or more. You will be making a world of difference in helping us continue to fight for the species that can’t fight for themselves.
         Appreciatively,
         Tom McGuire
         Vice President, Membership Programs
         P.S.	Please use the enclosed holiday gift wrapping paper and gift tags to help spread the word about our mission of conservation to your friends and family. Don’t forget, we will also send you the NWF tote bag with your welcome package when we receive your membership gift. Thank you!
      
      
   
