
   
      
         
         Help keep the promise alive...
         Dear Friend of Wildlife,
         A significant promise comes with your enclosed personalized address labels, which are ready for your immediate use. It’s a big promise. And that’s our vow to work hard to protect our country’s wildlife and the wild places on which they — and all of us depend!
         It’s a promise we’ve kept for nearly 65 years. And one we will keep for as long as there are people like you who care about our country’s wildlife and wild places. Will you join us in this exciting mission ... and help keep the promise alive?
         This is why we decided to send you your special sheet of labels. We hope you’ll use them on all of your letters, packages and cards. By doing this, you tell the world that you, too, care about what we leave our children — clean water, thriving grassland and wetlands teeming with life and an amazing array of animals, birds and other creatures that share this planet with us.
         Using your address labels is an easy way to show you care about wildlife.
         But I also hope you will help us keep alive the promise behind these labels and become the newest member of National Wildlife Federation today.
         You see, we need a strong membership base to continue delivering on our promise. And with more than 3,000 species facing rapidly disappearing habitat we have never needed members like you more.
         We need your support today to help us face off against a noisy chorus of anti-wildlife forces who oppose all efforts at commonsense environmental protection. These enemies of conservation are mounting an intensive effort to weaken the Endangered Species Act ... and our ability to protect threatened and endangered species.
         The enclosed copy of Wildlife Watch highlights what is involved in the major campaigns we’re currently conducting for wildlife ... and the challenges that lie ahead.
         The feeling that you are a real partner in helping us achieve victories for wildlife is probably the biggest benefit of membership there is.
         But membership carries many tangible benefits as well ... benefits that will keep you up-to-date on the latest wildlife news, and benefits designed to enhance your own personal enjoyment of nature.
         For a membership gift of just $15, you will receive a full year of the world’s most beautiful nature magazine, NATIONAL WILDLIFE. With its spectacular, full-color photographs, compelling features and updates on the important work your membership helps us to accomplish, this award-winning publication alone is worth the modest gift! As a member, you will look forward to and enjoy a new issue of NATIONAL WILDLIFP every other month.
         And when you join we’ll acknowledge your membership right away with a lovable gray wolf plush toy. It’s our FREE gift to you for joining now and a charming reminder that your support helps NWF protect valuable wildlife species like this one.
         Like your address labels, your gray wolf toy says good things about you and your love of wildlife!
         PLUS, there are additional membership benefits for you to enjoy. You’ll receive a membership card and attractive decal, wildlife and legislative alerts, in-depth monthly information packets on wildlife topics, invitations to outdoor programs, exciting travel opportunities and regular receipt of our trademark wildlife stamps — a national tradition since 1936 — greeting cards, a calendar and address labels.
         But best of all, your membership provides you with an opportunity to make a real, personal difference in the world we all share.
         So, please send us your membership gift today ... by using the convenient form attached to your personal address labels. We look forward to your reply.
         Appreciatively,
         Mark Van Putten
         President
         P.S. As soon as we hear from you by return mail and receive your $15 membership gift, we will send your NWF gray wolf plush toy. Then be on the lookout for NATIONAL WILDLIFE® where you’ll see spectacular pictures of wildlife species like this one ... and learn just how NWF goes about safeguarding them with your help.
      
      
   
